 
 PORTFOLIO BUDGET STATEMENTS 202 4–25 
BUDGET RELATED PAPER NO. 1. 6 
 
EMPLOYMENT AND WORKPLACE 
RELATIONS PORTFOLIO  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Budget Initiatives and Explanations of Appropriations  
Specified by Outcomes  and Programs by Entity   
 © Commonwealth of Australia 2024  
ISSN 2653 -6420 (Online)  
ISSN 2653 -6412 (Print)  
This publication is available for your use under a  Creative Commons BY Attribution 4.0  
International  licence, with the exception of the Commonwealth Coat of Arms, the Department of 
Employment and Workplace Relations logo, photographs, images, signatures and where 
otherwise stated. The full licence terms are available from  
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/au/legalcode . 
 
Use of Department of Employment and Workplace Relations material under a  Creative 
Commons BY Attribution 4.0 International  licence requires you to attribute the work (but not in 
any way that suggests that the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations endorses 
you or your use of the work).  
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  material used ‘as supplied’  
Provided you have not modified or transformed Department of Employment and Workplace 
Relations material in any way including, for example, by changing the Department of 
Employment and Workplace Relations text; calculating percentage changes; graphing or 
charting data; or deriving new statistics from published Department of Employment and 
Workplace Relations statistics – then Department of Employment and Workplace Relations 
prefers the following attribution:  
Source: The Australian Government  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Derivative material  
If you have modified or transformed Department of Employment and Workplace Relations 
material, or derived new material from those of the Department of Employment and Workplace 
Relations in any way, then Department of Employment and Workplace Relations pref ers the 
following attribution:  
Based on The Australian Government Department of Employment and Workplace Relations data  
Use of the Coat of Arms  
The terms under which the Coat of Arms can be used are set out on the Department of the Prime 
Minister and Cabinet website (see www.pmc.gov.au/government/commonwealth -coat-arms ). 
Other uses  
Enquiries regarding this licence and any other use of this document should be directed to 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations.  
 
  
THE HON TONY BURKE MP  THE HON BRENDAN O'CONNOR MP  
Minister for Employment and Workplace Relations  
Minister for the Arts  
Leader of the House  Minister for Skills and Training  
 
Senator the Hon Sue Lines  
President of the Senate  
Australian Senate  
Parliament House  
CANBERRA  ACT  2600  
 
The Hon Milton Dick MP  
Speaker  
House of Representatives  
Parliament House  
CANBERRA  ACT  2600  
 
Dear President  
Dear Mr Speaker  
We hereby submit the Portfolio Budget Statements in support of the 2024 –25 Budget for the 
Employment and Workplace Relations portfolio.  
These statements have been developed, and are submitted to the Parliament, as a statement 
on the outcomes for the portfolio.  
We present these statements to provide accountability to the Parliament and, through it, the 
public.  
Yours sincerely  
BRENDAN O’CONNOR  
 
 
Page iv Abbreviations and conventions  
The following notation may be used:  
NEC/nec  not elsewhere classified  
- nil 
.. not zero, but rounded to zero  
na not applicable (unless otherwise specified)  
nfp not for publication  
$m $ million  
$b $ billion  
Figures in tables and in the text may be rounded. Figures in text are generally rounded to 
one decimal place, whereas figures in tables are generally rounded to the nearest thousand. 
Discrepancies in tables between totals and sums of components are due to rounding.  
Enquiries  
Should you have any enquiries regarding this publication please contact the Chief Financ ial 
Officer in the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations on 1300 488 064.  
Links to Portfolio Budget Statements (including Portfolio Additional Estimates Statements 
and Portfolio Supplementary Additional Estimates Statements) can be located on the 
Australian Government Budget website at: www.budget.gov.au . 
  
 User Guide  
To The  
Portfolio Budget Statements 
User guide  |  Page vii User guide  
The purpose of the 2024–25 Portfolio Budget Statements  (PB Statements) is to inform Senators 
and Members of Parliament of the proposed allocation of resources to government 
outcomes by entities within the portfolio. Entities receive resources from the annual 
appropriations acts, special appropriations (includ ing standing appropriations and special 
accounts), and revenue from other sources.  
A key role of the PB Statements is to facilitate the understanding of proposed annual 
appropriations in Appropriation Bills (No. 1 and No. 2) 2024 –2025 (or Appropriation 
(Parliamentary Departments) Bill  (No. 1) 2024 –2025 for the parliamentary departments). 
In this sense, the PB Statements are Budget related papers and are declared by the 
Appropriation Acts to be ‘relevant documents’ to the interpretation of the Acts according to 
section 15AB of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 . 
The PB Statements provide information, explanation and justification to enable Parliament 
to understand the purpose of each outcome proposed in the Bills.  
As required under section 12 of the Charter of Budget Honesty Act 1998 , only entities within 
the general government sector are included as part of the Commonwealth general 
government sector fiscal estimates and produce PB Statements where they receive funding 
(either directly or via portfolio departments) through the annual appropriation acts.  
The Commonwealth Performance Framework  
The following diagram outlines the key components of the Commonwealth performance 
framework. The diagram identifies the content of each of the publications and the 
relationship between them. Links to the publications for each entity within the portfolio can 
be found in the introduction to Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance.  
   
Page viii  |  User Guide   
Commonwealth Performance Framework  
Key components of relevant publications  
Portfolio Budget Statements (May)  
Portfolio based  
  
Corporate Plan (August)  
Entity based  
  
Supports Annual Appropriations. Informs 
Senators and Members of Parliament of 
the proposed allocation of other resources 
to government outcomes and 
programs . 
Provides links to relevant programs  
undertaken by other Commonwealth 
entities.  
Provides high level performance 
information for current, ongoing programs, 
particularly a forecast of performance 
for the current year . 
Provides detailed  prospective 
performance information for proposed 
new budget measures that require a new 
program  or significantly change an 
existing program . 
Primary planning document of a 
Commonwealth entity.  
Sets out the purposes  of the entity, the 
key activities  it will undertake to achieve 
its purposes and the results  it expects to 
achieve over a minimum four year period.  
Describes the environment  in which the 
entity operates , the capability  it requires 
to undertake its activities , its risk 
oversight and management systems 
including key risks , and how it will 
cooperate  with others, including any 
subsidi aries, to achieve its purposes . 
Explains how the entity’s performance  
will be measured  and assessed . 
Annual Performance Statements (October following year)  
Entity based  
Included in the Commonwealth entity’s Annual Report. Focuses on recent 
performance . 
Reports on the actual performance results  for the year against the 
forecasts  made in the corporate plan  and Portfolio Budget Statements , 
and provides other performance information relevant to the entity.  
Provides an analysis  of the factors that contributed  to the entity’s 
performance results .  
Contents   |  Page ix Contents  
Portfolio Overview ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  1 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  ................................ .............  9 
Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency  ................................ ..............  67 
Australian Skills Quality Authority  ................................ ................................ ............  87 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation 
Authority  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................  113 
Fair Work Commission  ................................ ................................ .............................  143 
Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  ................................ ................................ ...... 169 
Safe Work Australia  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 195 
Portfolio glossary  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 217 
Portfolio acronyms ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 219  
 Portfolio Overview   
Portfolio Overview   |  Page 3 Department of Workplace Relations  Portfolio 
Overview  
Ministers and portfolio responsibilities  
The Department of Employment and Workplace Relations (the department) supports 
people in Australia to have safe, secure and well -paid work with the skills for a sustainable 
future.  
The Employment and Workplace Relations portfolio comprises the department and the 
following entities (see Figure 1):  
• Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency  
• Australian Skills Quality Authority  
• Comcare, the Seafarers Safety,  Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority (Seacare 
Authority)  
• Fair Work Commission  
• Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
• Safe Work Australia  
• Coal Mining Industry (Long Service Leave Funding) Corporation.  
The department and portfolio entities work with state and territory governments, other 
Australian Government entities and a range of service providers to provide high quality 
advice and service for the benefit of all Australians.  
For information on resourc ing across the portfolio, please refer to Part 1: Agency Financial 
Resourcing in  the Budget Paper No. 4: Agency Resourcing . 
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
Page 4  |  Portfolio Overview   
Figure 1: Employment and Workplace Relations portfolio structure and 
outcomes  
 
The Hon Tony Burke MP  
Minister for Employment and 
Workplace Relations  The Hon Brendan O’Connor MP  
Minister for Skills and  
 Training  The Hon Dr Andrew Leigh MP  
Assistant Minister for 
Employment  
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Natalie James – Secretary  
Outcome 1:  Foster a productive and competitive labour market through policies and programs that assist 
job seekers into work, including secure work, and meet employer and industry needs.  
Outcome 2:  Promote growth in economic productivity and social wellbeing through access to quality skills 
and training.  
Outcome 3:  Facilitate jobs growth, including secure work, through policies and programs that promote fair, 
productive and safe workplaces.  
 
Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency(a) 
Jodie Deakes  – Chief Executive Officer  
Outcome:  Assist in the prevention of exposure to asbestos fibres and respirable crystalline silica, to 
eliminate asbestos and silica related disease in Australia through coordinating the implementation of the 
Asbestos National Strategic Plan and the Silica Nationa l Strategic Plan.  
 
Australian Skills Quality Authority  
Saxon Rice – Chief Executive Officer  
Outcome:  Through our regulation and partnership with stakeholders, ensure quality vocational education 
and training so that students, employers, the community and governments have confidence in the integrity 
of national qualifications issued by training providers.  
 
Comcare  the Seacare  Authority  
Greg Vines – Chief Executive Officer of Comcare  
Barry Sherriff – Accountable Authority and Chairperson of the Seacare Authority  
Comcare Outcome:  Promote and enable safe and healthy work.  
Seacare Authority Outcome:  Promote healthy and safe workplaces and appropriate and timely 
compensation for, and rehabilitation of, injured workers  covered by the Seacare scheme and maintain a 
scheme safety net that is able to meet its liabilities.  
 
Fair Work Commission  
Murray Furlong – General Manager  
Outcome:  Simple, fair and flexible workplace relations for employees and employers through the exercise 
of powers to set and vary minimum wages and modern awards, facilitate collective bargaining, approve 
agreements, deal with disputes, and promote the financial t ransparency and effective governance of 
registered employee and employer organisations.  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
Portfolio Overview   |  Page 5 
Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
Anna Booth – Fair Work Ombudsman  
Outcome:  Compliance with workplace relations legislation through advice, education and where necessary 
enforcement.  
 
Safe Work Australia  
Marie Boland – Chief Executive Officer  
Outcome:  Healthier, safer, and more productive workplaces through improvements to Australian work 
health and safety and workers’ compensation arrangements.  
 
Coal Mining Industry (Long Service Leave Funding) Corporation (Coal LSL)(b) 
Darlene Perks – Chief Executive Officer  
Board of Directors – Accountable Authority  
Outcome:  Responsible for the Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave Fund, Coal LSL connects 
employers and employees with long service leave for the good of Australia’s black coal mining industry.  
(a) The agency’s outcome statement has been amended to reflect its extended functions for silica following 
amendments  to the Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency Act 2013 .  
(b) As a Public Financial Corporation, Coal LSL is not required to prepare budget statements and therefore 
is not included in this document.   
Entity  resources and planned performance   |  Page 7 Entity resources and  planned performance  
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  ................................ ...........  13 
Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency  ................................ ..............  71 
Australian Skills Quality Authority  ................................ ................................ ............  91 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation 
Authority  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................  117 
Fair Work Commission  ................................ ................................ .............................  147 
Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  ................................ ................................ ...... 173 
Safe Work Australia  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 199 
  
 Department of Employment 
and Workplace Relations  
 
Entity resources and planned 
performance   
Department of Employment and Workplace  Relations   |  Page 11 Department of Employment and Workplace 
Relations  
Section 1: Entity overview and resources  ................................ ................................  13 
1.1 Strategic direction statement  ................................ ................................ ......................  13 
1.2 Entity resource statement ................................ ................................ ...........................  23 
1.3 Budget measures  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 26 
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  ................................ .....................  29 
2.1 Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1  ................................ ................  30 
2.2 Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 2  ................................ ................  36 
2.3 Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 3  ................................ ................  47 
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ................................  54 
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ................................ ...................  54 
3.2. Budgeted financial statements tables  ................................ ................................ .........  56 
  
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 13 Department of Employment and Workplace 
Relations  
Section 1: Entity overview and resources  
1.1 Strategic direction statement  
The Department of Employment and Workplace Relations (the department) supports 
people in Australia to have safe, secure and well -paid work with the skills for a sustainable 
future.  
The department supports its Ministers through expert, evidence -based policy advice and 
through the design and delivery of effective  policies and programs. We  support people  to 
access jobs and work with industry to get outcomes for participants in employment 
programs.  The department jointly stewards the skills and training sector with the states and 
territories and works in close partnership with unions, employers, industry experts and 
training providers to deliver high quality skills for all Australians.  
The 2024 –25 Budget includes initiatives across employment, workplace relations, and skills 
and training that deliver on the Government’s vision for a dynamic and inclusive labour 
market where workers, businesses and communities have the opportunity to thrive. 
It includes initiatives to improve the employment services system, to support employment 
services reform, and to grow the skilled workforce to deliver a Future Made in Australia. 
It also includes measures to support workers and employers through the  Net Zero  
transformation, empower First Nations people to access education, training and 
employment, and support women to achieve secure, well -paid employment through 
vocational education and training (VET).  
Reforming employment services  
Working Future: The Australian Government’s White Paper on Jobs and Opportunities  
(Working Future)  outlines the Government’s vision for a stronger, fairer, and more 
inclusive economy. Working Future outlined the role of the employment services system in 
helping the Government to achieve this vision, and set out principles of future reform.  
The Government will create a responsive employment services system which actively 
supports participation and the secure and sustainable employment of people, and the 
work force needs of employers and industry.  
The Government is taking incremental steps in the 2024 –25 Budget towards larger scale 
reform. These measures are an initial response to the immediate issues identified through 
the House of Representatives Select Committee on Workforce Australia Employment 
Services. The Government recognises that further reform  will be necessary to achieve its 
vision and is committed to working closely with stakeholders and the broader community 
to improve employment services in the longer term.    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 14  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Supporting employment pathways  
The Government will commit $54.0 million over five years to a new employment pathways 
package, in partnership with employers across Australia, focusing on people with barriers 
to work who are seeking to connect to job opportunities and achieve sustained 
employment.  
The Real Jobs, Real Wages pilot will support people who are at risk of long -term 
unemployment by placing them in jobs with employers who will receive wage 
reimbursements for up to six months. The support will be tapered (to provide a greater 
amount of supp ort early in their engagement), with a focus on rewarding employers who 
place people in secure jobs. WorkFoundations will assist people with complex vocational 
and/or non -vocational barriers to build their work readiness in a supportive work 
environment wi th funding available for social enterprises and other suitable businesses for 
paid employment placements of up to six months, with tailored, wrap -around supports.  
These programs will help people seeking work to earn real wages and gain experience in 
jobs that suit their skills, interests and needs. All placements in this package will be real 
jobs, paid at the relevant Award or enterprise agreement rate, with legal e ntitlements 
including superannuation. The programs will also support employers to engage people 
with barriers to work in ways that deliver sustained benefits to their businesses. 
Both  programs will run from 1 July 2025 to 30 June 2027.  Funding will be redi rected to 
these initiatives by reducing Employment Fund credits and ceasing the 
Workforce  Specialis ts initiative . 
Enhancing Digital Services Delivery  
The Government will invest a further $6 8.6 million over five years in the Digital Services 
Contact Centre to provide better support for people using Workforce Australia Online. 
This  measure will strengthen service delivery in the Digital Services Contact Centre to 
Workforce Australia Online Service participants by Australian Public Service ( APS ) 
personnel. From  June  2024,  $27.0 million will be redirected to support individuals on the 
digital services caseload by reducing the credit amount allocated to the Digital  
Employment Fund as new participants commence,  from $300 to $250.  
The Government will also provide $10.9 million over four years for critical improvements 
to the Workforce Australia IT system. This funding will benefit people seeking work by 
reducing the administrative burden on employment services providers, allowing th em to 
spend more time delivering employment supports.   
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 15 
Better recognising individual circumstances  
The Government will make changes to better recognise individuals’ circumstances with 
more appropriate mutual obligation rules applied for Australians in receipt of income 
support payments.  
From January 2025, the 13 -week time limit for temporary medical incapacity exemptions 
from mutual obligation requirements for certain income support  recipients will be 
removed, with the duration to be based on advice from medical practitioners.  
From April 2025, mutual obligation requirements for  certain  income support  recipients in 
receipt of Carer Allowance will be aligned with other cohorts that have limited capacity to 
work and the ‘fully meeting’ rules will be aligned to allow study and volunteer work to 
count towards meeting requirements more equitably.  
Strengthening the integrity of employment services  
The Government will make adjustments to strengthen the integrity of the employment 
services system, and provide stronger safeguards for clients while it undertakes 
consultation on broader reforms to the employment services system.  
From October 2024, the Government will extend the time period for people to re -engage 
with their employment services provider, if they have not met  a mutual obligation  
requirement , from  two to five days. This will allow more time for people who have not met  
a mutual  obligation requirement to re -engage with their employment services provider 
before their income support payment is suspended.  
The Government will also adjust compliance settings to give people in receipt of  certain  
income support payments greater opportunity to familiarise themselves with their 
requirements before a payment suspension can be applied. From March 2025, compliance 
measures will not be applied the first time a person has not  met a  mutual obligation 
requirement.  
In addition, from March 2025, people who are working 30 hours or more per fortnight will 
not have their payment suspended for failing to attend an appointment at an employment 
services provider. This will ensure that if they are engaged in paid work at the same time as 
an appointment is scheduled with their employment servic es provider they will not receive 
a payment suspension for not attending the appointment.  
The Government will ensure that any application of financial penalties is approved by an 
APS  decision maker. This change will commence from  March  2025.  
The Government will also strengthen the complaints mechanism for people who use 
employment services. This will include the establishment of a centralised complaints team 
which will have responsibility for the design and implementation of a new complaints 
dispute resolution process, the investigation of complaints and taking further action with 
employment services providers where appropriate .   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 16  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Closing the Gap  
The Government will invest $76.2 million over five years into a new program, building on 
the Time to Work Employment Service , to improve the transition from prison to work for 
First Nations people.  The program will support people  in prisons, detention centres and 
juvenile justice facilities across Australia, with service providers offering pre -release and 
post -release supports to help people to reintegrate into their communities and engage with 
employment and education and trainin g. This program responds to  extensive consultation 
with First Nations organisations, communities and evidence on how to improve support in 
the transition from prison to work and reduce recidivism. The program will be 
progressively rolled out from 1 July 2025.  
The Government has also committed to providing $3.7 million from 2025 –26 to extend 
Broome Employment Services until June 2027, building on the initial investment made in 
the 2023 –24 Budget. The service is an innovative, place -based approach to employment 
servicing, where APS personnel work in partnership with the First Nations service 
provider. The additional two years will allow sufficient time for Broome Employment 
Services to be  fully evaluated and for consultations to occur on the ground with people 
directly impacted by this service, to inform a future place -based model in Broome.  
The Government is providing $30.2 million over five years from 2023 –24 to co -design and 
establish a network of Remote Training Hubs in partnership with Central Australian 
communities and the Northern Territory Government. This place -based initiative  supports 
people in remote communities to access on -Country training that meets community needs 
and leads to local, sustainable jobs.  It is part of the Better, Safer Future for Central  Australia  
plan.  
These  initiatives contribute to several socioeconomic targets under the National Agreement 
on Closing the Gap, including targets 6, 7, 8, 10 and 11 . They  align with the principles of 
Working Future to work in partnership with First Nations people to generate local 
solutions to economic development.  
Protecting workers and supporting small businesses  
The Government is introducing additional measures to protect workers and support small 
businesses to comply with workplace relations laws. These initiatives support the 
Government's recent workplace relations reforms to boost wages and conditions and creat e 
safer workplaces, including the Closing Loopholes Acts  and the prohibition on the use of 
engineered stone.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 17 
Workplace law compliance  
The Government will provide $20.5 million over four years from 2024 –25 to boost the 
Fair Work Ombudsman's Employer Advisory Service and make it ongoing, and to provide 
additional supports for small business. The Employer Advisory Service supports small 
businesses to comply with their obligations under workplace laws by providing free, 
tailored , written advice to eligible small business employers to help them understand the 
law. The Fair Work Ombudsman will also receive funding to prepare new resources to 
support small businesses to comply with the new right to disconnect laws.  
The Government will also provide $27.5 million over four years from 2024 –25 to extend 
funding to the Fair Work Ombudsman to respond to self -reported non -compliance with 
the Fair Work Act 2009  by large corporate employers. This includes monitoring and guiding 
remediation of employees’ wages and other entitlements from employers that self -disclose 
underpayments.  
The Government will provide $ 1.9 million over two years from 2024 –25 to 
the Fair Work  Ombudsman, to increase monitoring of the payment of relevant 
Award  wages to seafarers on foreign vessels engaged in coastal trading under a  
Temporary  Licence. This responds to recommendation 7 of the Strategic Fleet Taskforce 
report.  
The Government will recalibrate the Fair Entitlements Guarantee Recovery Program to 
deliver increased benefits to employees. The department will actively pursue unpaid 
superannuation guarantee charge (SGC) amounts owed by employers who have entered 
liquida tion or bankruptcy, for employees that have applied for Fair Entitlements Guarantee 
assistance. The department expects to recover an additional $56.6 million in SGC debt over 
the forward estimates, which will be received by the Australian Taxation Office ( ATO) and 
paid to employees’ superannuation funds (excepting SGC administration fees). This will 
achieve efficiencies of $13.0 million over four years from 2024 –25. 
The Government will provide additional funding of $ 60.0 million over four years 
from  2024 –25 for the Productivity, Education and Training Fund grant program, building 
on investments in the 2022 –23 October Budget and the 2023 –24 Budget. The funding will 
continue to support eligible employer and worker representative organisations to engage 
with the Government’s workplace relations and payday superannuation reforms , and to 
implement practical education and activities to embed the new laws in Australian 
workplaces.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 18  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
The Government will provide $2.0 million in 2024 –25 to advance its commitment to work 
with state and territory governments to establish a harmonised national labour hire 
regulation scheme. The funding will support the establishment of a project office, led by the 
Victorian Government, to undertake scoping work, leveraging the Victorian Government’s 
experience from administering Australia’s largest state -based scheme. Funding will be 
redirect ed to this initiative from previous funding provided to the Fair Wo rk Ombudsman 
to advance this work. This measure continues the implementation of a key 
recommendation of the Migrant Workers’ Taskforce, in line with the Government’s election 
commitment to implement its recommendations in full.  
Safer workplaces  
In December 2023, Commonwealth, state and territory governments agreed to prohibit the 
use, supply, and manufacture of engineered stone in response to the rise in silicosis 
diagnoses in engineered stone workers. The Commonwealth will legislate to prohibit the 
importation of engineered stone into Australia. This measure will complement the 
prohibition on the use of engineered stone under work health and safety laws, which will 
take effect in most jurisdictions from 1 July 2024, with limited transitional arra ngements for 
certain legacy contracts.  
The Government will provide $ 1.5 million over four  years from 2024 –25 to support the 
establishment of the Family and Injured Workers Advisory Committee. 
The Committee  will comprise members with lived experience of serious workplace 
incidents and advise Commonwealth work health and safety regulators on the needs of 
such people, helping to inform the development of relevant policies and strategies.  
The Government will provide additional funding of $1.5 million over two years  
from  2024 –25 to support a comprehensive, independent review of the Safety, Rehabilitation 
and Compensation Act 1988 , which underpins the Comcare workers’ compensation scheme. 
This builds on the initial investment announced in the 2023 –24 M id-Year Economic and 
Fiscal Outlook (MYEFO) . 
Future Made in Australia  
The Government is introducing several measures in this Budget to continue to address 
skills shortages and build the strong and highly skilled workforce needed to deliver a 
Future Made in Australia. These measures are aimed at supporting employment and 
prod uctivity growth, with a focus on priority areas of the economy such as the clean 
energy, construction, manufacturing, care, and digital technology sectors.  
Women in VET  
The Government will invest $55.6 million over four years, commencing in 2024 –25, in the 
new Building Women’s Careers program, which will drive structural and cultural  change 
in work and training environments. The program will fund a mixture of large -scale projects 
and smaller, place -based partnerships to improve women’s access to flexible, safe and 
inclusive work and training opportunities in traditionally male -dominat ed industries. 
The Government will work in partnership with women’s services, employers, u nions and  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 19 
training providers across target industries including construction, clean energy, advanced 
manufacturing, and digital technology. This will support women to build  the skills to 
achieve secure, well -paid employment, while helping to increase broader women’s 
participation, which is critical to overcoming skills shortages across the economy . 
Apprenticeships  
The Government will invest a further $265.1 million over four years from 2024 –25 in the 
Australian Apprenticeships Incentive System (AAIS), to continue supporting apprentices in 
priority occupations. The AAIS will provide targeted support to encourage people to 
commence and complete apprenticeships in priority occupations, via continued direct 
financial support to apprentices to provide cost -of-living relief and through adjusted hiring 
incentives for employers. This means apprentices in priority occupations will receive an 
additional $2,000 and their employers will receive an additio nal $1,000 above  planned 
settings , for a total of  $5,000 for eligible apprentices and $5,000 for their employers . 
This  measure will help continue to provide workers with opportunities to gain skills in key 
areas of the economy, such as clean energy, construction, manufacturing and digital 
technology. It will also support people to complete their apprenticeships in order to  access 
secure and well -paid jobs.  This measure is designed to provide stability to the sector while 
the Government undertakes a Strategi c Review into the AAIS to investigate how the 
Apprenticeships System can best support high quality apprenticeships and traineeships.  
The Government will invest an additional $10.6 million over four years from 2024 –25 to 
support the implementation of the Australian Skills Guarantee. From 1 July 2024, the 
Government is introducing new national targets for apprentices, trainees and paid cadets 
(including specific targets for women that increase annually) to work on  
Government -funded major projects. This initiative will enable the introduction of a robust 
and reliable reporting system to monitor progress against the targets, and support 
suppliers to comply with their new obligations.  
Net Zero transformation  
The Government is introducing several measures to advance its commitment 
for 82 per cent renewable electricity by 2030 and plan for Net Zero by 2050. 
These  initiatives  are designed to grow the skilled workforce to deliver the clean energy 
infrastructure Australia needs, and deliver an orderly and positive net zero economic 
transformation for Australian workers, industries and communities.  
The Government will support more apprentices who meaningfully engage with clean 
energy during their apprenticeships, with eligible apprentices in the  New  Energy  
Apprenticeship Program  (NEAP)  receiving up to $10,000 in financial support. It will also 
invest  $91.0 million over five years from 2023 –24 to increase the number of trainees and 
apprentices in clean energy occupations, and improve the capacity of the clean energy 
training system. This will include providing funding for initiatives to expand the  clean 
energy teacher, trainer and assessor workforce, and establishing a $50 .0 million capital and 
equipment investment fund for Commonwealth co -contributions to immediate clean 
energy training facility upgrades.    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 20  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
The Government will also reimburse Group Training Organisations (GTOs) that reduce 
their fees for small and medium enterprises seeking clean energy, manufacturing, and 
construction apprentices in priority occupations, and establish climate careers promotion 
work across government, industry, civil society, and the education an d training sectors.  
The Government will invest $134.2 million over four years from 2024 –25 to support 
communities likely to be affected by the transition . Workers,  their  families, and members of 
their communities will be able to access comprehensive employment and skills services, 
which may include career advice, job search assistance, case management, training and 
other supports.  
The Government will support the develop ment of  Regional Workforce Transition Plans, 
developed  with communities, state and local governments, employers, workers and unions 
to support the delivery of place -based supports and services in affected regions. 
This  recognises that a holistic approach will be required to ensure that people and 
communities benefit and grow from energy system changes. This measure will also 
establish APS Regional Workforce Transition Officers to oversee the establishment of the 
Region al Workforce Transition Plans, and implement a communications strategy to 
promote local supports and opportunities to workers, families and communities. 
Funding  will be redirected to this measure by reducing the scope of the Labour Market 
Support S tream . 
The Government’s new Energy Industry Jobs Plan will support workers in coal - or  
gas-fired power stations scheduled for closure to find new jobs that suit their skills and 
experience. The Fair Work Commission will receive $2.1 million over four years to 
administer the creation of ‘communities of interest’ of closing coal - or gas -fired 
power  stations and employers that are dependent on them in impacted regions. 
This  is intended  to provide a smooth and orderly transition for workers and employers in 
affected communities.  
Housing Support  
The Government will provide $90.6 million over three years from 2024 –25 to grow 
Australia’s construction workforce and boost housing supply. The Government will 
support states and territories to deliver 20,000 additional Fee -Free places that may be 
offered in TAFE and industry Registered Training Organisations ( RTOs ) in courses relevant 
to the construction sector. This  funding will offer cost -of-living relief for students, enabling 
them to access high quality training and develop the skills to work in a high -priority 
industry.  
As part of this commitment, the Government will work with jurisdictions to 
support  5,000  people to access pre -apprenticeship programs, designed to give students an 
experience of working in construction -related trades. This will inform their decisions 
around which apprenticeship to pursue, improve their employability, and support their 
transiti on into these industries. The Government will also update policy settings to 
streamline skills assessment requirements for migrants seeking to work in the construction  
industry. This will increase the supply of qualified and experienced tradespeople migrating 
from countries with comparable training frameworks to Australia.  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 21 
The Government  will also provide $4.4 million in 2024 –25 for a second phase of raising 
community awareness of Fee -Free TAFE courses in areas of high skills needs, and strategic 
communication activities to boost the status of VET and encourage the uptake and use of 
VET pathways.  
The Government will provide $13.2 million over three years from 2023 –24 to provide 
targeted assistance to increase the number of builders accredited under the Work Health 
and Safety Accreditation Scheme available to work on Housing Australia Future  
Fund  (HAFF) and National Housing Accord Facility  (NHAF)  projects. The funding will 
facilitate fast tracked accreditation applications and establish a grant program to enable 
building industry employer associations to support builders to obtain accreditation.  
Jobs and Skills Australia  
The Government will invest an additional $9.5 million in 2024 –25 to support Jobs and Skills 
Australia (JSA) to continue to provide independent advice on current, emerging, and future 
workforce skills and training needs. This resourcing will support JSA to continue to 
collaborate with unions, employers, state and territory governments, and education and 
training providers on workplace planning , to address skills shortages in priority areas 
across the economy.  
Careers Information  
The Government will provide $6.1 million for careers information and policy through the 
National Careers Institute  (NCI)  in 2024 –25. 
Universities Accord  
In response to the Australian Universities Accord (the Accord) the Australian Government 
is strengthening connections between the VET and higher education sectors to ensure 
students are provided with pathways to study and employment and gain the skills nee ded 
by industry and the economy.  
The Government is reforming the Higher Education Loan Program (HELP) and other 
income contingent loan programs, including VET Student Loans and Australian 
Apprenticeship Support Loans, to make them fairer. Indexation of loans will be capped at 
whichever ra te is the lowest of the Consumer Price Index and the Wage Price Index. 
This  will provide cost -of-living relief as indexation will not be at a rate higher than the 
growth in wages.  This will provide an immediate benefit to individuals affected by the 
indexa tion rate of 7.1 per cent that was applied in 2023, as well as ongoing benefits for 
future indexation of loans, once legislation has passed . 
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 22  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
The Government will establish a new Commonwealth Prac Payment for students to help 
them mana ge the costs associated with undertaking a mandatory placement. As part of this 
measure, t he Government will provide $58.2 million over four years in cost -of-living relief 
for eligible VET students studying nursing and undertaking mandatory placements. 
These  students will be able to access financial support over the course of their placements, 
which is intended to  provide cost -of-living relief,  reduce financial hards hip and boost 
completion rates. This will benefit students, education and training providers, and 
employers, while helping address workforce shortages.  
The Government will provide $14.6 million over four years to the department, 
and $1.3 million to the Australian Skills Quality Authority  (ASQA) , to help create a more 
joined -up tertiary education sector and lay the foundation for broader tertiary education 
reforms in the future. This includes immediate measures that focus on improving student 
experience and pathways through better credit recognit ion, enabling regulatory alignment 
and improving the evidence base of student movements between sectors through b etter 
data collection.  
Reviewing policies and programs to ensure quality spending  
The Government is committed to budget repair and redirecting spending to higher -quality 
areas. Opportunities have been identified to review programs to ensure quality spending. 
These include:  
• $47.3 million over five years by ceasing the Harvest Trail Services and Harvest Trail 
Information Service programs  from 1 July 2024 . 
• $3.5 million over two years from 2023 –24 by reducing the scope of the engineered stone 
communications campaign, consistent with market research on public awareness of the 
engineered stone ban.  
• $4.7 million in 2023 –24 by reducing the scope of the second stage of 
the Business  Research and Innovation Initiative — Automatic Mutual Recognition of 
Occupational Registrations.  
• $3.9 million over four years by ceasing the Integrated Information Service program  from  
1 July 2024 . 
• $6.1 million over the forward estimates by ceasing the underused, offshore International 
Skills Training courses program.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 23 
1.2 Entity resource statement  
Table 1.1 shows the total resourcing from all sources available to the Department of 
Employment and Workplace Relations for its operations and to deliver programs and 
services on behalf of the Government.  
The table summarises how resources will be applied by outcome (government strategic 
policy objectives) and by administered (on behalf of the Government or the public) and 
departmental (for the entity’s operations) classification.  
For more detailed information on special accounts and special appropriations, please refer 
to the Budget Paper No. 4 – Agency Resourcing .  
Information in this table is presented on a resourcing (that is, appropriations/cash 
available) basis, whilst the ‘Budgeted expenses by Outcome’ tables in Section 2 and the 
financial statements in Section 3 are presented on an accrual basis. Amounts presen ted 
below are consistent with amounts presented in the Appropriation Bills themselves.  
 
Table 1.1: Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  resource 
statement  – Budget estimates for 2024 –25 as at Budget May 2024  
 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25 
Estimate
$'000
Departmental
Annual appropriations - ordinary annual services (a)(b)
    Prior year appropriations available (c) 248,827 140,908 
    Departmental appropriation (d) 711,625 805,221 
    s74 External Revenue (e) 124,658 79,018 
    Departmental capital budget (f) 72,323 77,832 
Annual appropriations - other services - non-operating (b)(g)
    Prior year appropriations available (c) 10,867 17,594 
    Equity injection 43,163 69,831 
Total departmental annual appropriations 1,211,463 1,190,404 
Special accounts (h)
    Opening balance 5,727 5,727 
    Appropriation receipts (i) 5,201 2,532 
Total special accounts 10,928 8,259 
less departmental appropriations drawn from annual/special
  appropriations and credited to special accounts (5,201) (2,532)
Total departmental resourcing 1,217,190 1,196,131   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 24  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Table 1.1: Department of Employment and Workplace Relations resource 
statement  – Budget estimates for 2024 –25 as at  Budget May 2024 (continued)  
 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25 
Estimate
$'000
Administered
Annual appropriations - ordinary annual services (a)(j)
Prior year appropriations available (k) 1,153,115 1,263,407 
Outcome 1 1,818,213 1,900,605 
Outcome 2 2,591,108 1,918,509 
Outcome 3 74,328 93,802 
Payments to corporate entities (l) 6,029 6,679 
Total administered annual appropriations 5,642,793 5,183,002 
Special appropriations 
Asbestos-related Claims Act 2005 27,258 26,004 
Australian Apprenticeship Support 
  Loans Act 2014 (m) 236,974 258,179 
Coal Mining Industry (Long Service Leave) Administration Act 1992 233,358 251,764 
Fair Entitlements Guarantee Act 2012 278,276 309,980 
Higher Education Support Act 2003 281 - 
Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 50 50 
Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 26,359 24,917 
VET Student Loans Act 2016 276,704 293,066 
Total administered special appropriations 1,079,260 1,163,960 
Special accounts (h)
    Opening balance 9,715 10,362 
    Appropriation receipts (i) 6,323 6,445 
    Non-appropriation receipts 3,168 3,292 
    Adjustments (472) (493)
Total special account receipts 18,734 19,606 
less administered appropriations drawn from annual/special
  appropriations and credited to special accounts (6,323) (6,445)
less payments to corporate entities from annual/special
  appropriations (59,646) (57,600)
Total administered resourcing 6,674,818 6,302,523 
Total resourcing for the Department of Employment and 
  Workplace Relations 7,892,008 7,498,655 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 3,786 4,163 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 25 
Table 1.1: Department of Employment and Workplace Relations resource 
statement – Budget estimates for 2024 –25 as at Budget May 2024 (continued ) 
Third party payments from and on behalf of other entities  
 
All figures shown above are GST exclusive — these may not match figures in the cash flow statement.  
Prepared on a resourcing (i.e. appropriations available) basis.  
Table 1.1 has been prepared inclusive of movements against 2023 –24 resourcing including appropriations 
and external revenue but exclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimates figures.  
(a) Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 2024 –2025.  
(b) Excludes $18.230 million departmental funding, $0.089 million departmental capital funding, and  
$0.16  million equity funding expected to be appropriated through Appropriation Bills (No. 5 and 6). 
(c) Excludes $8.153 million of ordinary annual services appropriation and $5.395 million of other 
services  — non-operating appropriation from the 2023 –24 estimated actual and $20.053 million of 
ordinary annual services appropriation and $9.112 million of other services — non-operating 
appropriation from the 2024 –25 estimate that are subject to administrative quarantine by Finance or 
withheld under section 51 (s51) of the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 
(PGPA  Act).  
(d) Excludes Departmental capital budget (DCB).  
(e) Estimated External Revenue receipts under section 74 (s74) of the PGPA Act.  
(f) DCBs are not separately identified in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and form part of ordinary annual services 
items. Please refer to Table 3.5 Departmental capital budget statement for further details. 
For accounting  purposes, this amount has been designated as a 'contribution by owner'.  
(g) Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 2024 –2025.  
(h) Excludes trust moneys held in Services for Other Entities and Trust Moneys (SOETM) and other special 
accounts. For further information on special accounts, please refer to Budget Paper No. 4 — Agency 
Resourcing. Please also see Table 2.1 Budgeted expenses for Outcomes for further information on 
outcome and program expenses broken down by various funding sources, e.g. annual appropriations, 
special appropriations and special accounts.  
(i) Amounts credited to the special account(s) from the department's annual and special appropriations.  
(j) Excludes $42.425 million administered funding expected to be appropriated through 
Appropriation  Bill (No. 5) 2023 –24. 
(k) Excludes $92.396 million from the 2023 –24 estimated actual and $231.004 million from  
the 2024 –25 estimates, that are subject to administrative quarantine by Finance or withheld  
under s51 of the PGPA Act.  
(l) 'Corporate entities' are corporate Commonwealth  entities and Commonwealth companies as defined 
under the PGPA Act . 
(m) Previously ‘Trade Support Loans Act 2014 ’. 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25 
Estimate
$'000
Payments made on behalf of another entity 
  (as disclosed in the respective entity's resource statement)
Department of Finance - Parliamentary Business Resources Act 2017 
  (s59) 508 - 
Receipts received from other entities for the provision of services 
  (disclosed in s74 External Revenue section above) 62,011 51,602 
Payments made to corporate entities within the Portfolio 
Comcare
Annual Appropriation 6,029 6,679 
Special appropriations - Asbestos-related Claims Act 2005 27,258 26,004 
Special appropriations - Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation 
  Act 1998 26,359 24,917   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 26  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
1.3 Budget measures  
Budget measures in Part 1 relating to  entity Department of Employment and Workplace 
Relations  are detailed in the Budget Paper No.  2 and are summarised below.  
Table 1.2: Entity  2024 –25 Budget measures  
Part 1: Measures announced since  the 2023 –24 Mid -Year Economic and Fiscal 
Outlook (MYEFO)  
 
  
Program2023-24
$'0002024-25
$'0002025-26
$'0002026-27
$'0002027-28
$'000
Receipt measures
Amendments to the National
  Vocational Education and
  Training Regulator Act 20112.1
Administered receipts                -           285           584        1,047        1,073 
Departmental receipts                -                -                -                -                - 
Total                -           285           584        1,047        1,073 
Australian Apprenticeships Incentive
  System – further support (a)2.1
Administered receipts                -                -               1             11             43 
Departmental receipts                -                -                -                -                - 
Total                -                -               1             11             43 
Workplace Relations​ (a) 3.1
Administered receipts                -        2,355        5,048        9,438       13,291 
Departmental receipts                -                -                -                -                - 
Total                -        2,355        5,048        9,438       13,291 
Total receipt measures
Administered                -        2,640        5,633       10,496       14,407 
Departmental                -                -                -                -                - 
Total                -        2,640        5,633       10,496       14,407 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 27 
Table 1.2: Entity  2024 –25 Budget measures  
Part 1: Measures announced since  the 2023 –24 Mid -Year Economic and Fiscal 
Outlook (MYEFO) (continued)  
 
  
Program2023-24
$'0002024-25
$'0002025-26
$'0002026-27
$'0002027-28
$'000
Payment measures
APS Capability Reinvestment
  Fund : 2024‑25 projects funded
  under round two (b)1.1, 2.1, 3.1
Administered payments                -                -                -                -                - 
Departmental payments                -             94                -                -                - 
Total                -             94                -                -                - 
Commonwealth Rent Assistance –
  increase the maximum rates (c)1.1
Administered payments                -           241           542           661           708 
Departmental payments                -                -                -                -                - 
Total                -           241           542           661           708 
Extending Broome Employment
  Services1.1
Administered payments                -                -           274           739           724 
Departmental payments                -                -           959           971                - 
Total                -                -        1,233        1,710           724 
Net Zero Economy (d) 1.1
Administered payments                -        5,392       19,617       22,823       20,103 
Departmental payments                -        4,185        8,023        8,672        8,697 
Total                -        9,577       27,640       31,495       28,800 
Permanent Migration Program –
  2024‑25 planning levels and
  multi‑year planning (e)1.1
Administered payments                -                -                -              (6)              (4)
Departmental payments                -                -                -                -                - 
Total                -                -                -              (6)              (4)
Remote Jobs and Economic
  Development Program (f)(g)1.1
Administered payments                -                -                -                -                - 
Departmental payments                -           643           469             57             51 
Total                -           643           469             57             51 
Savings from External 
  Labour – extension (h)1.1, 2.1, 3.1
Administered payments                -                -                -                -                - 
Departmental payments                -       (1,581)       (1,640)       (1,802)     (15,378)
Total                -       (1,581)       (1,640)       (1,802)     (15,378)
Services Australia – additional
  resourcing (i)(j)1.1
Administered payments                -                -                -                -                - 
Departmental payments                -           398                -                -                - 
Total                -           398                -                -                - 
Australian Apprenticeships Incentive
  System – further support (k)2.1
Administered payments                -       63,190     179,739       17,663        1,472 
Departmental payments                -        1,980           377           382           387 
Total                -       65,170     180,116       18,045        1,859   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 28  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Table 1.2: Entity  2024 –25 Budget measures  
Part 1: Measures announced since  the 2023 –24 Mid -Year Economic and Fiscal 
Outlook (MYEFO) (continued)  
 
Prepared on a Government Finance Statistics (Underlying Cash) basis. Figures displayed as a negative ( -) 
represent a decrease in funds and a positive (+) represent an increase in funds.  
Note: Refer to the Employment and Workplace Relations Portfolio Supplementary Additional Estimates 
Statements 2023 –24 for measures that have financial impacts from 2023 –24.  
(a) This measure can also be found in the payment measures section.  
(b) The lead entity for measure titled APS Capability Reinvestment Fund: 2024 –25 projects funded under 
round two  is the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The full measure description and 
package details appear in Budget Paper No. 2 under the Prime Minister and Cabinet portfolio.  
(c) The lead entity for measure titled Commonwealth Rent Assistance — increase the maximum rates  is the 
Department of Social Services. The full measure description and package details appear in 
Budget  Paper No. 2 under the Social Services portfolio.  
(d) The lead entity for measure titled Net Zero Economy  is the Department of the Prime Minister and 
Cabinet. The full measure description and package details appear in Budget Paper No. 2 under the 
Prime Minister and Cabinet portfolio.  
(e) The lead entity for measure titled Permanent Migration Program — 2024 –25 planning levels and  
multi -year planning  is the Department of Home Affairs. The full measure description and package details 
appear in Budget Paper No. 2 under the Home Affairs portfolio.  
(f) The lead entity for measure titled Remote Jobs and Economic Development Program  is the 
National  Indigenous Australians Agency. The full measure description and package details appear in 
Budget  Paper No. 2 under the Prime Minister and Cabinet portfolio.  
(g) This measure includes $0.581 million and $0.375 million in capital funding in 2024 –25 and 2025 –26 
respectively.  
(h) This is a Whole of Government savings measure. The full measure description and package details 
appear in Budget Paper No. 2 under Cross Portfolio.  
(i) The lead entity for measure titled Services Australia — additional resourcing  is Services Australia. 
The full measure description and package details appear in Budget Paper No. 2 under the 
Social  Services portfolio.  
(j) This measure includes $0.324 million capital funding in 2024 –25.  
(k) This measure can also be found in the receipt measures section.  
Program2023-24
$'0002024-25
$'0002025-26
$'0002026-27
$'0002027-28
$'000
Further Support for the Vocational
  Education and Training System2.1
Administered payments                -        1,548                -                -                - 
Departmental payments                -       23,413           752           411               8 
Total                -       24,961           752           411               8 
Promoting TAFE and VET Pathways 2.1
Administered payments                -        4,445                -                -                - 
Departmental payments                -                -                -                -                - 
Total                -        4,445                -                -                - 
Engineered Stone Import Prohibition 3.1
Administered payments                -                -                -                -                - 
Departmental payments                -                -                -                -                - 
Total                -                -                -                -                - 
Workplace Relations​ (k) 3.1
Administered payments                -       11,043       24,493       26,126       26,208 
Departmental payments                -        2,119        2,900        2,943        2,972 
Total                -       13,162       27,393       29,069       29,180 
Total payment measures
Administered                -       85,859     224,665       68,006       49,211 
Departmental                -       31,251       11,840       11,634       (3,263)
Total                -     117,110     236,505       79,640       45,948 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 29 
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by the 
Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the primary 
vehicle by which government entities achieve the intended results of their outcome 
stateme nts. Entities are required to identify the programs which contribute to government 
outcomes over the Budget and forward years.  
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs. The  following  
provides detailed information on expenses for each outcome and program, further broken 
down by funding source.  
The department is undertaking a review of its performance measures and will publish an 
updated suite in the 2024 –25 Department of Employment and Workplace Relations 
Corporate Plan.  
Note:  
Performance reporting requirements in the Portfolio Budget Statements are part of the 
Commonwealth performance framework established by the Public Governance, Performance 
and Accountability Act 2013  (PGPA Act) . It is anticipated that the performance measure 
described in Portfolio Budget Statements will be read with broader information provided 
in an entity ’s corporate plans and annual performance statements – included in Annual 
Reports  – to provide a complete picture of an entity ’s planned and actual perfor mance.  
The most recent corporate plan for the Department of Employment and Workplace 
Relations (the department)  can be found through: www.dewr.gov.au . 
The most recent annual performance statement can be found through : www.dewr.gov.au . 
   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 30  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
2.1 Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1  
Outcome 1: Foster a productive and competitive labour market through policies and programs 
that assist job seekers into work, including secure work, and meet employer and industry needs.  
 
Linked programs  
Department of Social Services  
Programs  
• Program 1.3  – Support for Seniors  
• Program 1.6 – Working Age Payments  
• Program 3.1 – Disability and Carers  
• Program 3.2 – National Disability Insurance Scheme  
Contribution to Outcome 1 made by linked programs  
The Department of Social Services (DSS) contributes to Outcome 1 by providing support 
to job seekers while they are unable to work or while they find work and by providing 
support to people with disability, their family and carers to build their knowledge,  skills 
and confidence to participate in social and economic life. This includes:  
• building the capacity of the community to create opportunities for people with 
disability to contribute to community prosperity and participate in community life, 
with initiatives that create pathways to employment and drive more inclusive 
practices by emp loyers through the Information Linkages and Capacity Building 
Economic and Community Participation program  
• activities that build foundation skills and work expectations of people with disability 
as well as activities that increase the capacity of employers and workplaces to be 
more inclusive  
• social security payment arrangements that enable job seekers to take up work  
• strengthening incentives for pensioners over Age Pension age to work if they are able 
to and wish to do so.  
DSS contributes to Outcome 1 by leading the implementation of Australia’s Disability 
Strategy 2021 –2031, which includes ensuring people with disability have economic 
security, enabling them to plan for the future, and exercise choice and control over their 
lives.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 31 
Linked programs (continued)  
Services Australia  
Programs  
• Program 1.1 – Strategy and Corporate Enabling  
• Program 1.2 – Customer Service Delivery  
• Program 1.3 – Technology and Transformation  
Contribution to Outcome 1 made by linked programs  
Services Australia contributes to Outcome 1 by making payments on behalf of the 
department.  
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade  
Program  
• Program 1.1 – Foreign Affairs and Trade Operations  
Contribution to Outcome 1 made by linked programs  
The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade contributes to Outcome 1 by supporting  
Australia’s development priorities and provi ding  advocacy and coordination at overseas 
missions.    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 32  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1  
This table shows how much the entity intends to spend (on an accrual basis) on achieving 
the outcome, broken down by program, as well as by Administered an d Departmental 
funding sources.  
Table 2. 1.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 
 
  
2023-24
Estimated
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26
Forward
estimate
$'0002026-27
Forward
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward
estimate
$'000
Program 1.1: Employment Services
Administered expenses
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1)
Workforce Australia 1,359,117 1,434,844 1,451,660 1,484,033 1,452,746 
Pacific Australia Labour 
  Mobility (PALM) (a) 11,020 4,680 5,906 6,756 6,756 
Transition to Work 301,691 309,304 304,819 309,382 304,877 
Time to Work 3,664 - - - - 
ParentsNext (b) 88,295 28,686 - - - 
Skills and Training Incentive 17,382 - - - - 
Local Jobs Program 47,176 45,351 - - - 
Y Careers 6,080 5,320 - - - 
New Voluntary Pre-Employment 
  Service for Parents (c) - 59,173 98,529 136,834 158,093 
First Nations Prison to Employment 
   Program (d) - 30 9,193 19,033 22,136 
Supporting Worker Transition Through
  Energy System Changes - 13,217 27,442 30,648 27,928 
Special appropriations
Public Governance, Performance and 
  Accountability Act 2013 - s77 30 30 30 30 30 
Administered total 1,834,455 1,900,635 1,897,579 1,986,716 1,972,566 
Total expenses for program 1.1 1,834,455 1,900,635 1,897,579 1,986,716 1,972,566 Outcome 1: Foster a productive and competitive labour market through policies and programs that assist 
job seekers into work, including secure work, and meet employer and industry needs.Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 33 
Table 2.1.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 (continued)  
 
Note: Departmental appropriation splits and totals are indicative estimates and may change in the course of 
the budget year as government priorities change.  
Note: Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimates figures.  
(a) Reflects the domestic operations and policy elements of the PALM program. Consistent with the  
2023 –24 Budget measure Enhancing Pacific Engagement to insource domestic delivery of the 
PALM  program to the department, administered expenses decrease over the forward estimates and 
departmental expenses increase over the forward estimates.  
(b) The ParentsNext program will finish on 31 October 2024 and be replaced by a new voluntary  
pre-employment service for parents from 1 November 2024 at (c).  
(c) New voluntary pre -employment service for parents commences 1 November 2024.  
(d) The First Nations Prison to Employment Program will be introduced in a phased approach from  
1 July 2025.  
(e) Estimated expenses incurred in relation to receipts retained under s74 of the PGPA Act.  
(f) Expenses not requiring appropriation in the budget year are made up of depreciation/amortisation 
expenses, audit fees and an approved operating loss.  
(g) Figures displayed as a negative ( -) represent a decrease in funds and a positive (+) represent an 
increase in funds.  
  
2023-24
Estimated
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26
Forward
estimate
$'0002026-27
Forward
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward
estimate
$'000
Administered expenses
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 1,834,425 1,900,605 1,897,549 1,986,686 1,972,536 
Special appropriations
Public Governance, Performance and 
  Accountability Act 2013 - s77 30 30 30 30 30 
Administered total 1,834,455 1,900,635 1,897,579 1,986,716 1,972,566 
Departmental expenses 
Departmental appropriation 347,354 388,054 379,856 368,322 361,481 
s74 External Revenue (e) 66,238 43,247 43,424 43,424 43,424 
Expenses not requiring
  appropriation in the Budget
  year (f) 103,138 102,478 104,314 115,045 117,970 
Departmental total 516,730 533,779 527,594 526,791 522,875 
Total expenses for Outcome 1 2,351,185 2,434,414 2,425,173 2,513,507 2,495,441 
Movement of administered
  funds between years (g)2023-24
Estimated
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26
Forward
estimate
$'0002026-27
Forward
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward
estimate
$'000
Outcome 1: 
Y Careers (5,320) 5,320 - - - 
Total movement of
  administered funds (5,320) 5,320 - - - 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 1,953 2,251 Outcome 1 Totals by appropriation type  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 34  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Table 2. 1.2: Performance measures  for Outcome 1 
Table 2. 1.2 details the performance measures for each program associated with Outcome 1. 
It is used by entities to describe the results they plan to achieve and the related key 
activities , as detailed in the current corporate plan , the context in which these activities are 
delivered , and how the performance of these activities will be measured. Where relevant, 
details of the 2024–25 Budget measures that have created new programs or materially 
changed existing programs are provided.   
Outcome 1  – Foster a productive and competitive labour market through policies and programs 
that assist job seekers into work, including secure work, and meet employer and industry needs.  
Program 1.1 – Employment Services  
 
The Employment Services system has the following key objectives: to help job seekers find and keep a job; 
to deliver high -quality and efficient employment services; and to support target groups to improve their 
work readiness and find employment.  
Key Activities  • Provide quality services to job seekers and employers  
• Reduce risk of long -term unemployment  
• Support job seekers, including youth, to achieve sustainable employment  
• Support parents to improve their work readiness and prepare for employment.  
 
Year  Performance measures  Expected performance results  
Current Year  
2023–24 Number of registered Workforce 
Australia Digital Platform users who log 
in to the platform  Target: 1,500,000 unique users or more  
 
Not on track  
The target for this measure is unlikely to 
be achieved based on year-to-date 
results. For the 12 months to 31 March 
2024, 1,371,347 unique users logged 
into the Workforce Australia Digital 
Platform.   
Proportion of Workforce Australia 
Services participants who are satisfied 
or very satisfied with the overall quality 
of services delivered by their provider  66% or higher  
 
On track  
Number of employers that lodge a 
vacancy through the Workforce Australia 
Digital Platform  16,000 unique employers or more  
 
Not on track  
For the 12 -month period to 31  March 
2024, 15,353 unique employers 
advertised a vacancy on the Workforce 
Australia Digital Platform. Due to policy 
changes implemented during the year 
this target is unlikely to be met.  
Proportion of Workforce Australia 
Services participants who receive a 
service during any month  80% or higher  
 
On track  
Proportion of Workforce Australia 
Services participants who achieve a 
26-week Employment Outcome  15% or higher  
 
On track  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 35 
Year  Performance measures  Expected performance results  
Current Year  
2023–24 Proportion of participants in work or 
study three months after exiting services  a) Workforce Australia Online: 80% or 
higher  
 
On track  
 
b) Workforce Australia Services: 60% 
or higher  
 
On track  
 
c) Workforce Australia – Transition to 
Work: 60% or higher  
 
On track  
Proportion of ParentsNext  participants 
who increase their work readiness  75% or higher  
 
On track  
Proportion of ParentsNext participants 
who complete training or education, or 
participate in employment  20% or higher  
 
On track  
 
Year  Performance measures  Planned performance results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 (a) Proportion of participants in work or 
study three months after exiting services  a) Workforce Australia Online: 80% or 
higher  
b) Workforce Australia Services: 60% 
or higher  
c) Workforce Australia – Transition to 
Work: 60% or higher  
Forward Estimates  
2025 –28 As per 2024 –25 As per 2024 –25 
Changes to Program 1.1 resulting from 2024 –25 Budget Measures:  
• APS Capability Reinvestment Fund: 2024 –25 projects funded under round two  
• Commonwealth Rent Assistance – increase the maximum rates  
• Disability Employment Services Reform  
• Employment Services Reform  
• Employment and Workplace Relations – reprioritisation  
• Extending Broome Employment Services  
• First Nations Prison to Employment Program  
• Net Zero Economy  
• Permanent Migration Program – 2024 –25 planning levels and multi -year planning  
• Remote Jobs and Economic Development Program  
• Savings from External Labour – extension  
• Services Australia – additional resourcing  
(a) The department is undertaking a review of its performance measures and will publish an updated suite in 
the 2024 –25 Department of Employment and Workplace Relations Corporate Plan.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 36  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
2.2 Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 2  
Outcome 2: Promote growth in economic productivity and social wellbeing through access to 
quality skills and training.  
 
Linked programs  
Department of Home Affairs  
Program  
• Program 2.2  – Visas  
Contribution to Outcome 2 made by linked programs  
The Department of Home Affairs contributes to Outcome 2 by supporting a sustainable 
international education sector through administering student visas.  
Department of Social Services  
Programs  
• Program 1.7 – Student Payments  
• Program 3.1 – Disability and Carers  
• Program 3.2 – National Disability Insurance Scheme  
Contribution to Outcome 2 made by linked programs  
The Department of Social Services contributes to Outcome 2 by providing financial 
support to individuals and families to undertake further education and training. This 
includes enhancing educational outcomes for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
studen ts by increasing their access and participation in further education. DSS also 
provides support to people with disability, their family and carers to build their 
knowledge, skills and confidence to participate in social and economic life.  
DSS contributes to Outcome 2 by leading the implementation of Australia’s Disability 
Strategy 2021 –2031, which includes ensuring people with disability have economic 
security, enabling them to plan for the future, and exercise choice and control over their 
lives.  
DSS also contributes through work under the payment by outcome trial, where 
employment outcomes are achieved in social enterprises and through building the 
capability and capacity of the social enterprise sector through the Social Enterprise 
Development In itiative (SEDI).  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 37 
Linked programs (continued)  
Department of  the Treasury  
Program  
Program 1.4  – Commonwealth -State Financial Relations  
Contribution to Outcome 2 made by linked programs  
The Department of the Treasury contributes to Outcome 2 by making National 
Partnership Payments to the states.  
Services Australia  
Programs  
• Program 1.1 – Strategy and Corporate Enabling  
• Program 1.2 – Customer Service Delivery  
• Program 1.3 – Technology and Transformation  
Contribution to Outcome 2 made by linked programs  
Services Australia contributes to Outcome 2 by making payments to eligible jobs seekers 
participating in foundation skills programs.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 38  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Budgeted expenses for Outcome 2 
This table shows how much the entity intends to spend (on an accrual basis) on achieving 
the outcome, broken down by program, as well as by Administered an d Departmental 
funding sources.  
Table 2. 2.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 2 
 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Administered expenses 
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 2,610,378 1,913,497 1,731,450 1,263,392 1,160,969 
Special appropriations
Australian Apprenticeship Support 
  Loans Act 2014 (a) 79,167 115,257 84,145 87,177 89,259 
Special accounts
Unique Student Identifiers Special 
  Account 5,792 5,914 6,014 6,128 6,250 
Administered total 2,695,337 2,034,668 1,821,609 1,356,697 1,256,478 
Total expenses for program 2.1 2,695,337 2,034,668 1,821,609 1,356,697 1,256,478 
Administered expenses 
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 572 286 - - - 
Special appropriations
VET Student Loans (b) 456,376 277,945 136,620 155,581 177,485 
Special accounts
VSL Tuition Protection Fund Special 
  Account 2,580 2,687 2,791 2,901 3,547 
Administered total 459,528 280,918 139,411 158,482 181,032 
Total expenses for program 2.2 459,528 280,918 139,411 158,482 181,032 
Departmental expenses 
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 1,925 1,974 - - - 
Departmental total 1,925 1,974 - - - 
Total expenses for program 2.3 1,925 1,974 - - - Outcome 2: Promote growth in economic productivity and social wellbeing through access to quality 
skills and training.
Program 2.1: Building Skills and Capability
Program 2.2: VET Student Loans
Program 2.3: DEWR - Nuclear-powered Submarine ProgramPortfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 39 
Table 2.2.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 2 (continued)  
 
Note: Departmental appropriation splits and totals are indicative estimates and may change in the course of 
the budget year as government priorities change.  
Note: Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimates figures.  
(a) Previously ‘Trade Support Loans Act 2014 ’. 
(b) VET Student Loans relates to the  VET Student Loans Act 2016  and Higher Education Support Act 2003 , 
insofar as it relates to VET FEE -HELP assistance and VET student loans.  
(c) Includes departmental expenses from program 2.3 above and all other Outcome 2 departmental 
expenses.  
(d) Estimated expenses incurred in relation to receipts retained under s74 of the PGPA Act.  
(e) The Student Identifiers Special Account is composed of both administered and departmental funding.  
(f) Expenses not requiring appropriation in the budget year are made up of depreciation and amortisation 
expenses, audit fees and an approved operating loss.  
(g) Figures displayed as a negative ( -) represent a decrease in funds and a positive (+) represent an 
increase in funds.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Administered expenses 
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 2,610,950 1,913,783 1,731,450 1,263,392 1,160,969 
Special appropriations 535,543 393,202 220,765 242,758 266,744 
Special accounts 8,372 8,601 8,805 9,029 9,797 
Administered total 3,154,865 2,315,586 1,961,020 1,515,179 1,437,510 
Departmental expenses 
Departmental appropriation (c) 250,288 280,124 233,306 227,957 217,452 
s74 External Revenue (d) 46,504 29,379 29,316 29,316 29,316 
Special accounts (e)
Unique Student Identifiers Special 
  Account 5,201 2,532 2,530 2,535 2,567 
Expenses not requiring appropriation
   in the Budget year (f) 45,580 40,559 37,048 35,687 32,788 
Departmental total 347,573 352,594 302,200 295,495 282,123 
Total expenses for Outcome 2 3,502,438 2,668,180 2,263,220 1,810,674 1,719,633 
Movement of administered
  funds between years (g)2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Outcome 2: 
VET Data Streamlining (13,427) 13,427 - - - 
Jobs and Skills Australia (8,610) 2,690 5,920 - - 
NSA Implementation (620) 620 - - - 
Closing the Gap (1,728) 1,728 - - - 
Enhanced VET Data and Evidence (12,224) 12,224 - - - 
Remote Training Hubs Network (2,050) 2,050 - - - 
National Training System - COPE (3,640) 3,640 - - - 
Total movement of administered
   funds (42,299) 36,379 5,920 - - 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 1,410 1,463 Outcome 2 Totals by appropriation type  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 40  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Table 2.2.2: Program components of Outcome 2  
   
2023-24
Estimated
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26
Forward
estimate
$'0002026-27
Forward
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward
estimate
$'000
Sub-program 2.1.1 - Skills Development
Annual administered expenses 
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1)
Australian Apprenticeship Support 
  Network 246,392 238,045 207,936 202,283 203,161 
Australian Apprenticeships Incentives 
  Program 1,337,733 226,759 106,534 5,088 - 
Australian Apprenticeships Incentives 
  System 633,522 976,633 958,569 580,615 482,910 
Skills Checkpoint for Older Workers 
  Program 7,657 1,000 - - - 
Trades Recognition Australia 68,998 72,809 77,012 89,311 89,311 
Migrant Skills Incentive 7,251 - - - - 
Special appropriations 
Australian Apprenticeship Support 
  Loans Act 2014 (a) 79,167 115,257 84,145 87,177 89,259 
Total component 2.1.1 expenses 2,380,720 1,630,503 1,434,196 964,474 864,641 
Sub-program 2.1.2 - Access to Training
Annual administered expenses 
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1)
Skills for Education and 
  Employment 103,979 129,121 138,623 152,564 152,143 
Foundation Skills for Your Future 
  Program 5,259 - - - - 
Foundation Skills for Your
 Future - Remote Community  Pilots 3,047 - - - - 
Remote Training Hubs Network 2,516 6,896 5,762 3,557 1,793 
Total component 2.1.2 expenses 114,801 136,017 144,385 156,121 153,936 Program 2.1: Building Skills and CapabilityPortfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 41 
Table 2. 2.2: Program components of Outcome 2 (continued)  
 
Note: Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimates figures.  
(a) Previously ‘Trade Support Loans Act 2014 ’. 
(b) This special account is funded by Annual Appropriation Bill (No.  1). 
(c) The Student Identifiers Special Account is composed of both administered and departmental funding.  
  
2023-24
Estimated
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26
Forward
estimate
$'0002026-27
Forward
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward
estimate
$'000
Annual administered expenses
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1)
Industry Workforce Training 6,695 7,483 8,566 7,130 10,567 
Integrated Information Service 896 - - - - 
Jobs and Skills Australia 7,565 5,264 5,920 - - 
Licensing of International Vocational 
  Education and Training (VET) Courses426 - - - - 
My Skills Website 614 623 - - - 
National Careers Institute and 
  Ambassador 4,323 1,548 - - - 
National Centre for Vocational 
  Education Research 754 777 795 811 828 
National Training System COPE 40,576 47,495 32,877 36,157 36,669 
Skills Communication Campaign 6,733 4,605 - - - 
VET Data Streamlining 15,093 20,381 7,093 7,230 7,374 
VET Information Strategy 620 645 668 684 701 
Job and Skills Councils 104,109 114,200 114,153 112,767 118,592 
National Skills Passport 1,146 - - - - 
Building Women's Careers - 8,000 17,000 17,000 8,000 
Commonwealth Prac Payment - - 10,839 12,684 14,627 
Tertiary Harmonisation - - - 4,056 4,056 
Total component 2.1.3 expenses 189,550 211,021 197,911 198,519 201,414 
Unique Student Identifiers Special 
  Account (b)(c) 5,792 5,914 6,014 6,128 6,250 
Total component 2.1.4 expenses 5,792 5,914 6,014 6,128 6,250 
Annual administered expense
Ordinary annual services (Appropriation
 Bill No. 1)
Closing the Gap 717 7,571 6,514 8,284 8,498 
Foundation Skills - 4,576 16,017 13,717 11,585 
National TAFE Network 677 1,354 1,354 1,354 1,354 
VET Workforce 3,000 6,000 6,000 6,000 6,000 
Enhanced VET Data and Evidence - 29,392 7,518 - - 
NSA Implementation 80 2,320 1,700 2,100 2,800 
Total component 2.1.5 expenses 4,474 51,213 39,103 31,455 30,237 
Total program expenses 2,695,337 2,034,668 1,821,609 1,356,697 1,256,478 Program 2.1: Building Skills and Capability
Sub-program 2.1.3 - Support for the National Training System
Sub-program 2.1.4 - Student Identifiers Special Account
Sub-program 2.1.5 - National Skills Agreement (NSA) COPE  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 42  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Table 2. 2.2: Program components of Outcome 2 (continued)  
 
Note: Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimates figures.  
(a) VET Student Loans relates to the  VET Student Loans Act 2016 and Higher Education Support Act 2003 , 
insofar as it relates to VET FEE -HELP assistance and VET student loans.  
(b) This special account is funded by Annual Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and receipts from independent 
sources.  
  
2023-24
Estimated
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26
Forward
estimate
$'0002026-27
Forward
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward
estimate
$'000
Annual administered expenses 
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1)
VET FEE-HELP (VFH) Student 
  Redress Scheme 572 286 - - - 
Special appropriations
   VET Student Loans (a) 456,376 277,945 136,620 155,581 177,485 
Special account expenses
VSL Tuition Protection Fund Special 
  Account (b) 2,580 2,687 2,791 2,901 3,547 
Total program expenses 459,528 280,918 139,411 158,482 181,032 Program 2.2: VET Student LoansPortfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 43 
Table 2. 2.3: Performance measures  for Outcome 2 
Table 2. 2.3 details the performance measures for each program associated with Outcome 2. 
It is used by entities to describe the results they plan to achieve and the related key 
activities , as detailed in the current corporate plan , the context in which these activities are 
delivered , and how the performance of these activities will be measured. Where relevant, 
details of the 2024–25 Budget measures that have created new programs or materially 
changed existing programs are provided.   
Outcome 2 – Promote growth in economic productivity and social wellbeing through access to 
quality skills and training.  
Program 2.1 – Building Skills and Capability  
 
The Australian Government is working to create an effective and efficient skills and training system that is 
industry -led and delivers the skills Australian employers need. Building skills and capabilities is central to 
Australia’s economic growth, competi tiveness, and business productivity. The national training system 
provides employees and potential employees with the skills and capabilities required for a job and pathway 
into a job.  
Key Activities  • Enhance the quality of vocational education and training (VET)  
• Respond to national future skills needs through access to VET graduates with 
the required skills  
• Improve language, literacy, numeracy and digital literacy (LLND) skills for target 
groups.  
 
Year  Performance measures  Expected performance results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 Proportion of graduates who are 
satisfied with the overall quality of the 
training  a) All graduates: 85% or higher  
 
On track  
 
b) First Nations graduates: 85% or 
higher  
 
On track  
 
c) Female graduates: 85% or higher  
 
On track  
Proportion of VET graduates who are 
employed or enrolled in further study 
after training  a) All graduates: 80% or higher  
 
On track  
 
b) First Nations graduates: 80% or 
higher  
 
On track  
 
c) Female graduates: 80% or higher  
 
On track  
Maintain the number of apprenticeship 
commencements  Maintain numbers at pre COVID -19 
levels (2019 –20 commencements)  
 
On track    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 44  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Year  Performance measures  Expected performance results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 Proportion of employers that report use 
of the VET system  50% or higher  
 
On track  
Proportion of participant assessments in 
targeted programs that increase one or 
more levels on the Australian Core Skills 
Framework (ACSF) or the Digital 
Literacy Skills Framework (DLSF)  80% or higher  
 
On track  
 
Year  Performance measures  Planned performance results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 (a) Proportion of VET graduates who are 
employed or enrolled in further study 
after training  a) All graduates: 80% or higher  
b) First Nations graduates: 80% or 
higher  
c) Female graduates: 80% or higher  
Forward Estimates  
2025 –28 As per 2024 –25 As per 2024 –25 
Changes to Program 2.1 resulting from 2024 –25 Budget Measures:  
• Amendments to the National Vocational Education and Training Regulator Act 2011  
• APS Capability Reinvestment Fund: 2024 –25 projects funding under round two  
• Australian Apprenticeships Incentive System – further support  
• Australian Universities Accord – tertiary education system reforms  
• Employment and Workplace Relations – reprioritisation  
• Future Made in Australia – Workforce and Trade Partnerships for Renewable Energy  Superpower 
Industries  
• Further Support for the Vocational Education and Training System  
• Housing Support  
• Promoting TAFE and VET Pathways  
• Savings from External Labour – extension  
 
(a) The department is undertaking a review of its performance measures and will publish an updated suite in 
the 2024 –25 Department of Employment and Workplace Relations Corporate Plan.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 45 
Program 2.2 – VET Student Loans  
 
The program aims to remove the up -front cost barriers to training to increase access and participation. 
This is achieved through the provision of income -contingent loans for students undertaking certain higher 
level vocational education and training (VET)  courses.  
Key Activities  • Reduce barriers to undertaking quality VET.  
 
Year  Performance measures  Expected performance results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 Proportion of VET student loans 
students who are satisfied with the 
quality of their training provider  80% or higher  
 
On track  
Proportion of units of study successfully 
completed by VET student loans 
students  (a) 70% or higher  
 
On track  
 
Year  Performance measures  Planned performance results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 (b) Proportion of units of study successfully 
completed by VET student loans 
students  70% or higher  
Forward Estimates  
2025 –28 As per 2024 –25 As per 2024 –25 
Changes to Program 2.2 resulting from 2024 –25 Budget Measures:  
• Australian Universities Accord – tertiary education system reforms  
 
(a) This measure was previously published as “ Proportion of VET student loans students who complete 
units of study ”. The wording has been updated to better reflect how the result is calculated.  
(b) The department is undertaking a review of its performance measures and will publish an updated suite in 
the 2024 –25 Department of Employment and Workplace Relations Corporate Plan.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 46  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Program 2.3 – Nuclear -powered Submarine Program  
 
The program establishes a taskforce within the Department to support Australia’s nuclear -powered 
submarine program under the AUKUS partnership.  
Key Activities  • Establish a taskforce to provide advice on utilising Australia’s skills and training 
system to support the workforce requirements of the submarine program.  
 
Year  Performance measures  Expected performance results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 Establish a taskforce and commence 
work in support of the nuclear -powered 
submarine program  a) Taskforce established by 
30 September 2023  
b) Initial collaboration and engagement 
occurs by 30 September 2023  
 
On track  
 
Year  Performance measures  Planned performance results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 (a) Details of a performance measure that 
relates to the provision of advice on 
utilising Australia’s skills and training 
system to support the workforce 
requirements of the submarine program 
will be published in the department’s 
2024 –25 C orporate Plan . No target  
Changes to Program 2.3 resulting from 2024 –25 Budget Measures:  Nil. 
(a) The department is undertaking a review of its performance measures and will publish an updated suite in 
the 2024 –25 Department of Employment and Workplace Relations Corporate Plan.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 47 
2.3 Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 3  
Outcome 3: Facilitate jobs growth, including secure work, through policies and programs that 
promote fair, productive and safe workplaces.  
 
Linked programs  
Australian Bureau of Statistics  
Program  
• Program 1.1  – Australian Bureau of S tatistics 
Contribution to Outcome 3 made by linked programs  
The Australian Bureau of Statistics contributes to Outcome 3 by providing enhanced 
workplace  relations data to support policies and programs that promote fair, productive 
and safe workplaces.  
Department of the Treasury  
Program  
• Program 1.4  – Commonwealth -State Financial Relations  
Contribution to Outcome 3 made by linked programs  
The Department of the Treasury contributes to Outcome 3 by making Specific Purpose  
Payments to the states.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 48  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Budgeted expenses for Outcome 3 
This table shows how much the entity intends to spend (on an accrual basis) on achieving 
the outcome, broken down by program, as well as by Administered an d Departmental 
funding sources.  
Table 2. 3.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 3 
 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Administered expenses
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 74,376 93,802 85,835 86,250 85,293 
Special appropriations
Coal Mining Industry (Long Service
  Leave) Administration Act 1992 233,358 251,764 251,764 251,764 251,764 
Fair Entitlements Guarantee Act 2012 278,276 309,980 275,230 261,420 266,867 
Administered total 586,010 655,546 612,829 599,434 603,924 
Total expenses for program 3.1 586,010 655,546 612,829 599,434 603,924 
Administered expenses
Payments to corporate entities -
  Comcare 6,029 6,679 6,252 6,362 6,438 
Special appropriations 
Asbestos-related Claims Act 2005 27,258 26,004 25,470 24,864 24,878 
Safety, Rehabilitation and
  Compensation Act 1988 26,359 24,917 24,162 22,960 22,170 
Administered total 59,646 57,600 55,884 54,186 53,486 
Total expenses for program 3.2 59,646 57,600 55,884 54,186 53,486 Outcome 3: Facilitate jobs growth, including secure work through policies and programs that promote 
fair, productive and safe workplaces.
Program 3.1: Workplace Support
Program 3.2: Workers' Compensation PaymentsPortfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 49 
Table 2.3.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 3 (continued)  
 
Note: Departmental appropriation splits and totals are indicative estimates and may change in the course of 
the budget year as government priorities change.  
Note: Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimates figures.  
(a) Estimated expenses incurred in relation to receipts retained under s74 of the PGPA Act.  
(b) Expenses not requiring appropriation in the budget year are made up of depreciation and amortisation 
expenses, audit fees and an approved operating loss.  
(c) Figures displayed as a negative ( -) represent a decrease in funds and a positive (+) represent an 
increase in funds.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Administered expenses
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 74,376 93,802 85,835 86,250 85,293 
Payments to corporate entities -
  Comcare 6,029 6,679 6,252 6,362 6,438 
Special appropriations 565,251 612,665 576,626 561,008 565,679 
Administered total 645,656 713,146 668,713 653,620 657,410 
Departmental expenses 
Departmental appropriation 68,592 76,143 73,845 70,279 71,167 
s74 External Revenue (a) 11,938 6,392 6,401 6,401 6,401 
Expenses not requiring appropriation in
  the Budget year (b) 14,043 12,887 12,053 10,865 9,078 
Departmental total 94,573 95,422 92,299 87,545 86,646 
Total expenses for Outcome 3 740,229 808,568 761,012 741,165 744,056 
Movement of administered
  funds between years (c)2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Outcome 3: 
Workplace Support (1,140) 1,140 - - - 
Total movement of
  administered funds (1,140) 1,140 - - - 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 423 449 Outcome 3 Totals by appropriation type  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 50  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Table 2.3.2: Program components of Outcome 3  
 
Note: Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimates figures.  
(a) Sub-program was previously reported as 'Payments to industry for business research and innovation 
initiatives'.  
(b) Sub-program was previously reported as 'Financial assistance to working women's centres to provide 
advice and related support on work -related matters'.  
(c) Sub-program was previously reported as part of 'Support for employer representatives and unions to 
improve safety, fairness, and productivity in workplaces'.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Annual administered expenses
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1)
  Fair Entitlements Guarantee 31,744 36,643 39,004 39,922 40,625 
  International Labour Organization
    Subscription 14,804 14,755 14,755 14,755 14,755 
  Protected Action Ballots Scheme 1,600 1,600 1,600 1,600 1,600 
  Business research and innovation
    initiatives (a) 500 1,504 503 - - 
  Working women's centres
    assistance (b) 9,655 9,657 9,660 9,660 8,000 
  Productivity, Education and Training
    Fund (c) 11,688 19,188 19,188 19,188 19,188 
  Safe Work Australia member grants (c) 1,725 1,725 1,125 1,125 1,125 
  Work Health and Safety Accreditation
    Scheme grant - 6,000 - - - 
  Prohibition of Engineered Stone 2,660 2,730 - - - 
Special appropriations
 Coal Mining Industry (Long Service
   Leave) Administration Act 1992 233,358 251,764 251,764 251,764 251,764 
 Fair Entitlements Guarantee Act 2012 278,276 309,980 275,230 261,420 266,867 
Total expenses for program 3.1 586,010 655,546 612,829 599,434 603,924 Program 3.1: Workplace SupportPortfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 51 
Table 2.3.2: Program components of Outcome 3  (continued)  
 
Note: Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimates figures.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Annual administered expenses
Payments to corporate entities - 
  Comcare 6,029 6,679 6,252 6,362 6,438 
Special appropriations
Asbestos-related Claims Act 2005 27,258 26,004 25,470 24,864 24,878 
Safety, Rehabilitation and
  Compensation Act 1988 26,359 24,917 24,162 22,960 22,170 
Total expenses for program 3.2 59,646 57,600 55,884 54,186 53,486 Program 3.2: Workers' Compensation Payments  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 52  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Table 2. 3.3: Performance measures  for Outcome 3 
Table 2.3.3 details the performance measures for each program associated with Outcome 3. 
It is used by entities to describe the results they plan to achieve and the related key 
activities, as detailed in the current corporate plan, the context in which the se activities are 
delivered, and how the performance of these activities will be measured. Where relevant, 
details of the 2024 –25 Budget measures that have created new programs or materially 
changed existing programs are provided.  
Outcome 3 – Facilitate jobs growth, including secure work, through policies and programs that 
promote fair, productive and safe workplaces.  
Program 3.1 – Workplace Support  
 
This program contributes to the outcome through:  
• the promotion of fair workplaces by ensuring the protection of employee entitlements in certain 
circumstances;  
• ensuring the efficient operation of the workplace relations system through initiative s designed to 
encourage employers and employees to adopt fair, productive, flexible and safe workplace relations.  
Key Activities  • Administer and advise on legal and policy frameworks  
• Administer and implement programs and services.  
 
Year  Performance measures  Expected performance results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 Proportion of assessed economic data 
and analysis to support the effective 
operation of the workplace relations 
system that is timely  100%  
 
On track  
Average processing time for initial claims 
under the Fair Entitlements Guarantee 
program  14 weeks or less  
 
Not on track  
The target for this measure is unlikely to 
be achieved as t here has been an 
increase in demand for FEG since 
March 2023. The average processing 
time over the first 3 quarters of 2023 –24 
was 16.6 weeks.  
Proportion of claim payments made 
under the Fair Entitlements Guarantee 
program that are correct  95% or higher  
 
On track  
Total Recorded Injury Frequency Rate 
(TRIFR) collectively reported by 
companies accredited under the Work 
Health and Safety Accreditation Scheme  Rate is lower than the previous calendar 
year 
 
Not on track  
The target for this measure is unlikely to 
be achieved for the 2023 calendar year 
as the TRIFR for the first six months of 
2023  (6.2) was higher than the TRIFR 
for the 2022 calendar year (5.8). It is 
unlikely that there are material seasonal 
variations that explain the 6 month 
result.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 53 
Year  Performance measures  Planned performance results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 (a) Average processing time for initial claims 
under the Fair Entitlements Guarantee 
program  (b) 14 weeks or less  
Proportion of claim payments made 
under the Fair Entitlements Guarantee 
program that are correct  (b) 95% o r higher  
Forward Estimates  
2025 –28 As per 2024 –25 As per 2024 –25 
Changes to Program 3.1 resulting from 2024 –25 Budget Measures:  
• APS Capability Reinvestment Fund: 2024 –25 project funded under round two  
• Employment and Workplace Relations – reprioritisation  
• Engineered Stone Import Prohibition  
• Housing Support  
• Savings from External Labour – extension  
• Supporting Safety and Responsible Decommissioning in the Offshore Resources Sector  
• Workplace Relations  
(a) The department is undertaking a review of its performance measures and will publish an updated suite in 
the 2024 –25 Department of Employment and Workplace Relations Corporate Plan.  
(b) Measuring both timeliness and quality of Fair Entitlement s Guarantee claims processing in combination 
gives a more complete picture of performance and allows a proxy for assessing efficiency.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 54  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  
Section 3 presents budgeted financial statements which provide a comprehensive snapshot 
of entity finances for the 2024 –25 budget year, including the impact of budget measures 
and resourcing on financial statements.  
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  
3.1.1  Differences between entity resourcing and financial statements  
The entity resource statement differs from the budgeted financial statements as amounts in 
Appropriation Bill (No. 5  and No. 6 ) 2023 –2024 are excluded from the entity resource 
statement as the bill has not yet received the Royal Assent. Differences may also arise as a 
result of the entity resource statement being presented on a resourcing basis while the 
budgeted financial statements are based on Australian Accounting Standards.  
3.1.2  Explanatory notes and analysis of budgeted financial statements  
Analysis of the department’s budgeted financial statements, which consists of the budgeted 
departmental statements and administered schedules, is provided below.  The 2023 –24 
estimated actual is used as the comparative year.  
Budgeted departmental comprehensive income statement  
The department’s income statement reflects a deficit across the forward estimates. These  
deficits are predominantly attributed to depreciation and amortisation expenses, including 
the application of the lease accounting standard, AASB16.  
Total expenses for 2024 –25 are estimated to be $981. 8 million. This is an increase of  
$22.9  million from the 2023 –24 estimated actual, mainly driven by increase in employee 
expenses.   
The department is budgeting for an operating loss in 2023 –24 before unfunded 
depreciation. The loss is funded through contributed equity from the formation of the 
department and does not impact the department’s sustainability.  
Budget departmental balance sheet  
The budgeted net asset position is $612.4 million as at  30 June 2025. The accumulated deficit 
apparent in the balance sheet predominately represents the accounting treatment 
applicable to depreciation expenses and AASB 16 Leases.  
The structure of the balance sheet reflects the nature of the organisation. Key  assets  are 
office fit -out (included in land and buildings), computer software (included in intangibles) 
and computer and office machines (included in property, plant and equipment). The most 
significant liability relates to leases as a consequence of  AASB  16 Leases. Other significant 
liabilities relate to employees and the leave provisions that are accrued.   Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 55 
Schedule of budgeted income and expenses administered on behalf of Government  
The schedule reflects the revenues/gains and expenses relating to the programs 
administered by the department on behalf of Government.  
The administered revenue predominately relates to indexation on loan programs 
administered by the department, which are Trade Support Loans Scheme and VET Student 
Loans.  
Schedule of budgeted assets and liabilities administered on behalf of Government  
Total administered assets are projected to increase by $336.3 million from $4. 6 billion as at 
30 June 2025 to $4.9 billion as at 30 June 2028, mainly attributable to Trade Support Loans.  
The total administered liabilities are projected to increase marginally from $2.2 67 billion as 
at 30 June 2025 to $2.339 billion as at 30 June 2028.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 56  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
3.2. Budgeted financial statements tables  
Table 3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services) for 
the period ended 30  June  
 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual(a)
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
EXPENSES
Employee benefits 437,410 477,089 457,008 434,194 387,981 
Suppliers 374,719 349,229 312,556 314,583 344,370 
Depreciation and amortisation (b) 143,904 152,350 149,841 158,023 156,262 
Finance costs 2,843 3,127 2,688 3,031 3,031 
Total expenses 958,876 981,795 922,093 909,831 891,644 
LESS: 
OWN-SOURCE INCOME
Own-source revenue
Sale of goods and rendering of
  services (c) 98,675 58,382 58,505 58,505 58,505 
Rental income 26,005 20,636 20,636 20,636 20,636 
Other 3,929 3,929 3,929 3,929 3,929 
Total own-source revenue 128,609 82,947 83,070 83,070 83,070 
Total own-source income 128,609 82,947 83,070 83,070 83,070 
Net (cost of)/contribution by
  services (830,267) (898,848) (839,023) (826,761) (808,574)
Revenue from Government 729,855 805,221 748,975 728,199 711,773 
Surplus/(deficit) attributable to the
  Australian Government (100,412) (93,627) (90,048) (98,562) (96,801)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) (100,412) (93,627) (90,048) (98,562) (96,801)
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
  attributable to the Australian
  Government (100,412) (93,627) (90,048) (98,562) (96,801)Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 57 
Table  3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services)  for 
the period ended 30  June (continued)  
Note: Impact of net cash appropriation arrangements  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimate figures.  
(b) From 2010 –11, the Government introduced net cash appropriation arrangements where Bill 1 revenue 
appropriations for the depreciation/amortisation expenses of non -corporate Commonwealth entities  
(and select corporate Commonwealth entities) were replaced with a separate capital budget 
(the Departmental Capital Budget, or DCB) provided through Bill 1 equity appropriations. 
For information  regarding DCBs, please refer to Table 3.5 Departmental Capital Budget Statement.  
(c) Estimated External Revenue receipts under s74 of the PGPA Act may change in the course of the 
budget year and across the forward estimates due to ongoing movements related to the department’s 
external revenue arrangements with other entities.  
(d) Applies to leases under AASB 16 Leases.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual(a)
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
  - as per statement of
  Comprehensive Income (100,412) (93,627) (90,048) (98,562) (96,801)
plus: depreciation/amortisation of 
  assets funded through appropriations
  (departmental capital budget funding
  and/or equity injections) (b) 89,142 94,793 98,482 99,199 97,438 
plus: depreciation/amortisation
  expenses for ROU assets (d) 54,762 57,557 51,359 58,824 58,824 
less: lease principal repayments (d) 58,420 58,368 59,438 59,106 59,106 
Net Cash Operating Surplus/ 
  (Deficit) (14,928) 355 355 355 355   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 58  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Table  3.2: Budg eted departmental balance sheet (as at 30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
*Equity is the residual interest in assets after the deduction of liabilities.  
(a) Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimate figures.  
(b) The 2026 –27 and 2027 –28 figures exclude building lease additions for future national office 
accommodation arrangements for the department.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual(a)
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 6,387 6,387 6,387 6,387 6,387
Trade and other receivables 271,967 266,402 266,296 265,667 265,412
Total financial assets      278,354      272,789      272,683      272,054      271,799 
Non-financial assets
Land and buildings (b)       293,982 240,943       279,160       183,243       118,945 
Property, plant and equipment         70,759 82,562         89,069         94,079         93,131 
Intangibles       362,627 418,643       389,410       370,389       319,719 
Other non-financial assets         25,932 25,932         25,932         25,932         25,932 
Total non-financial assets      753,300      768,080      783,571      673,643      557,727 
Total assets    1,031,654    1,040,869    1,056,254       945,697       829,526 
LIABILITIES
Payables
Suppliers         48,295 48,338         48,574         48,574         48,574 
Other payables         13,249 14,618         14,307         13,933         13,780 
Total payables        61,544        62,956        62,881        62,507        62,354 
Interest bearing liabilities
Leases       283,180 236,150       273,381       214,275       155,169 
Total interest bearing liabilities      283,180      236,150      273,381      214,275      155,169 
Provisions
Employee provisions       128,556 129,353       128,965       128,709       128,607 
Total provisions      128,556      129,353      128,965      128,709      128,607 
Total liabilities       473,280       428,459       465,227       405,491       346,130 
Net assets       558,374       612,410       591,027       540,206       483,396 
EQUITY*
Parent entity interest
Contributed equity       743,138 890,801       959,466    1,007,207    1,047,198 
Retained surplus (accumulated
  deficit) (184,764) (278,391) (368,439) (467,001) (563,802)
Total parent entity interest 558,374 612,410 591,027 540,206 483,396 
Total equity       558,374       612,410       591,027       540,206       483,396 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 59 
Table 3.3: Departmental statement of changes in equity  – summary of  movement 
(Budget year 2024 –25)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimate figures.  
  
Retained
earnings
$'000Asset
revaluation
reserve
$'000Other
reserves
$'000Contributed
equity/
capital
$'000Total
equity(a)
$'000
Opening balance as at 1 July 2024
Balance carried forward from
  previous period (184,764) - - 743,138 558,374 
Adjusted opening balance (184,764) - - 743,138 558,374 
Comprehensive income
Surplus/(deficit) for the period (93,627) - - - (93,627)
Total comprehensive income (93,627) - - - (93,627)
of which:
Attributable to the Australian
  Government (93,627) - - - (93,627)
Transactions with owners
Contributions by owners
Equity injection - Appropriation - - - 69,831 69,831 
Departmental Capital Budget (DCB) - - - 77,832 77,832 
Sub-total transactions with
  owners - - - 147,663 147,663 
Estimated closing balance as at
  30 June 2025 (278,391) - - 890,801 612,410 
Closing balance attributable to
  the Australian Government (278,391) - - 890,801 612,410   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 60  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Table 3.4: Budgeted depar tmental statement of cash flows (for the period ended  
30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimate figures.  
(b) Estimated External Revenue receipts under s74 of the PGPA Act may change in the course of the 
budget year and across the forward estimates due to ongoing movements related to the department’s 
external revenue arrangements with other entities.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual(a)
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Appropriations 755,403 806,727 749,081 728,828 712,028 
Sale of goods and rendering of
  services (b) 124,680 79,018 79,141 79,141 79,141 
Net GST received 36,983 34,507 30,831 31,057 34,036 
Other (22) - - - - 
Total cash received 917,044 920,252 859,053 839,026 825,205 
Cash used
Employees 434,963 474,923 457,707 434,824 388,236 
Suppliers 406,814 379,576 339,142 341,631 374,397 
Interest payments on lease liability 2,843 3,127 2,688 3,031 3,031 
Other 705 188 80 80 80 
Total cash used 845,325 857,814 799,617 779,566 765,744 
Net cash from/(used by)
  operating activities 71,719 62,438 59,436 59,460 59,461 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Cash used
Purchase of property, plant and
  equipment and intangibles 131,975 155,792 68,663 48,095 40,346 
Total cash used 131,975 155,792 68,663 48,095 40,346 
Net cash from/(used by)
  investing activities (131,975) (155,792) (68,663) (48,095) (40,346)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Contributed equity 118,676 151,722 68,665 47,741 39,991 
Total cash received 118,676 151,722 68,665 47,741 39,991 
Cash used
Principal payments on lease liability 58,420 58,368 59,438 59,106 59,106 
Total cash used 58,420 58,368 59,438 59,106 59,106 
Net cash from/(used by)
  financing activities 60,256 93,354 9,227 (11,365) (19,115)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
  held - - - - - 
Cash and cash equivalents at the
  beginning of the reporting period 6,387 6,387 6,387 6,387 6,387 
Cash and cash equivalents at
  the end of the reporting period 6,387 6,387 6,387 6,387 6,387 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 61 
Table  3.5: Departmental capital budget statement (for the period ended 30 June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimate figures.  
(b) Includes both current Appropriation Bill (No. 2) and prior Appropriation Act (No. 2/4/6) appropriations.  
(c) Includes purchases from current and previous years' Departmental Capital Budgets (DCBs).  
(d) Includes the followin g: 
- sponsorship, subsidy, gifts or similar contribution;  
- internally developed assets;  
- proceeds from the sale of assets ; and  
- s74 external receipts.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual(a)
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
NEW CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS
Capital budget - Bill 1 (DCB) 72,412 77,832 44,138 39,566 39,991 
Equity injections - Bill 2 43,323 69,831 24,527 8,175 - 
Total new capital appropriations 115,735 147,663 68,665 47,741 39,991 
Provided for:
Purchase of non-financial assets 115,735 147,663 68,665 47,741 39,991 
Total items 115,735 147,663 68,665 47,741 39,991 
PURCHASE OF NON-FINANCIAL
  ASSETS
Funded by capital appropriations (b) 56,494 70,633 25,329 8,175 - 
Funded by capital appropriation -
  DCB (c) 75,483 85,160 43,336 39,566 39,991 
Funded internally from departmental
  resources (d) 355 355 355 355 355 
TOTAL 132,332 156,148 69,020 48,096 40,346 
RECONCILIATION OF CASH USED
  TO ACQUIRE ASSETS TO ASSET
  MOVEMENT TABLE
Total purchases 132,332 156,148 69,020 48,096 40,346 
Total cash used to acquire assets 132,332 156,148 69,020 48,096 40,346   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 62  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Table  3.6: Statement of departmental asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimate figures.  
(b) ‘Appropriation equity’ refers to equity injections appropriations provided through Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 
2024 –2025, including Collection Development Acquisition Budgets (CDABs).  
(c) ‘Appropriation ordinary annual services’ refers to funding provided through Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 
2024 –2025 for depreciation/amortisation expenses, DCBs or other operational expenses.  
  
Buildings
$'000Other
property,
plant and
equipment
$'000Computer
software and
intangibles
$'000Total (a)
$'000
As at 1 July 2024
Gross book value 61,209 108,271 719,531 889,011 
Gross book value - ROU assets 534,192 - - 534,192 
Accumulated depreciation/
  amortisation and impairment (34,520) (37,512) (356,904) (428,936)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation and 
  impairment - ROU assets (266,899) - - (266,899)
Opening net book balance 293,982 70,759 362,627 727,368 
Capital asset additions
Estimated expenditure on new
  or replacement assets
By purchase - appropriation equity (b) - - 70,633 70,633 
By purchase - appropriation
  ordinary annual services (c) 5,000 20,238 59,921 85,159 
By purchase - other - ROU assets 11,338 - - 11,338 
Total additions 16,338 20,238 130,554 167,130 
Other movements
Depreciation/amortisation expense (11,820) (8,435) (74,538) (94,793)
Depreciation/amortisation on 
 ROU assets (57,557) - - (57,557)
Total other movements (69,377) (8,435) (74,538) (152,350)
As at 30 June 2025
Gross book value 66,209 128,509 850,085 1,044,803 
Gross book value - ROU assets 545,530 - - 545,530 
Accumulated depreciation/
  amortisation and impairment (46,340) (45,947) (431,442) (523,729)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation and 
  impairment - ROU assets (324,456) - - (324,456)
Closing net book balance 240,943 82,562 418,643 742,148 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 63 
Table 3.7: Schedule of budgeted income and expenses administered on behalf of 
Government (for the period ended 30  June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimates figures.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual (a)
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
EXPENSES
Suppliers 2,265,976 2,329,301 2,269,363 2,362,182 2,357,480 
Subsidies 2,045,290 1,147,203 997,319 670,576 580,358 
Personal benefits 598,888 795,743 781,250 624,995 614,819 
Grants 154,041 232,910 230,444 229,530 223,996 
Write-down and impairment 
  of assets 511,135 366,610 193,052 214,046 237,347 
Payments to corporate entities 59,646 57,600 55,884 54,186 53,486 
Total expenses administered 
  on behalf of Government 5,634,976 4,929,367 4,527,312 4,155,515 4,067,486 
LESS:
OWN-SOURCE INCOME
Own-source revenue
Taxation revenue
Other taxes 236,526 255,056 254,555 255,833 255,423 
Total taxation revenue 236,526 255,056 254,555 255,833 255,423 
Non-taxation revenue
Interest 194,639 123,024 117,410 108,914 109,811 
Other revenue 207,086 282,960 302,762 330,570 350,014 
Total non-taxation revenue 401,725 405,984 420,172 439,484 459,825 
Total own-source revenue
  administered on behalf of
  Government 638,251 661,040 674,727 695,317 715,248 
Gains
Other gains (56,137) (6,272) (16,284) (23,396) (31,792)
Total gains administered on 
  behalf of Government (56,137) (6,272) (16,284) (23,396) (31,792)
Total own-sourced income
  administered on behalf of
  Government 582,114 654,768 658,443 671,921 683,456 
Net (cost of)/contribution by
  services 5,052,862 4,274,599 3,868,869 3,483,594 3,384,030 
Surplus/(deficit) before 
  income tax (5,052,862) (4,274,599) (3,868,869) (3,483,594) (3,384,030)
Surplus/(deficit) after 
  income tax (5,052,862) (4,274,599) (3,868,869) (3,483,594) (3,384,030)
Total other comprehensive 
  income/(loss) (5,052,862) (4,274,599) (3,868,869) (3,483,594) (3,384,030)
Total comprehensive income 
  (loss) attributable to the 
  Australian Government (5,052,862) (4,274,599) (3,868,869) (3,483,594) (3,384,030)  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 64  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Table 3.8: Schedule of budgeted assets and liabilities administered on behalf of 
Government (as at 30 June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimates figures.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual (a)
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
ASSETS 
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 15,673 16,316 17,468 18,636 19,810 
Trade and other receivables 4,269,460 4,167,272 4,245,460 4,352,989 4,500,060 
Other investments 360,946 360,946 360,946 360,946 360,946 
Other financial assets 41,754 41,754 41,754 41,754 41,754 
Total financial assets 4,687,833 4,586,288 4,665,628 4,774,325 4,922,570 
Non-financial assets
Other non-financial assets 5,956 5,956 5,956 5,956 5,956 
Total non-financial assets 5,956 5,956 5,956 5,956 5,956 
Total assets administered 
  on behalf of Government 4,693,789 4,592,244 4,671,584 4,780,281 4,928,526 
LIABILITIES
Payables
Suppliers 101,295 101,295 101,295 101,295 101,826 
Subsidies 30,357 30,357 30,357 30,357 30,357 
Personal benefits 1,913 1,913 1,913 1,913 1,913 
Grants 33,152 33,152 33,152 33,152 33,152 
Other payables 2,093,548 2,099,820 2,116,104 2,139,500 2,171,292 
Total payables 2,260,265 2,266,537 2,282,821 2,306,217 2,338,540 
Total liabilities administered 
  on behalf of Government 2,260,265 2,266,537 2,282,821 2,306,217 2,338,540 
Net assets/(liabilities) 2,433,524 2,325,707 2,388,763 2,474,064 2,589,986 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations   |  Page 65 
Table 3.9: Schedule of budgeted administered cash flows (for  the period ended 
30 June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Table has been prepared inclusive of 2023 –24 Supplementary Additional Estimates figures.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual (a)
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Interest 228,835 194,905 188,249 181,668 175,099 
Taxes 236,526 255,056 254,555 255,833 255,423 
Net GST received 226,598 232,930 226,936 236,218 235,748 
Other 180,822 193,712 206,004 222,085 236,656 
Total cash received 872,781 876,603 875,744 895,804 902,926 
Cash used
Grant 154,041 232,910 230,444 229,530 223,996 
Subsidies paid 2,045,290 1,147,203 997,319 670,576 580,358 
Personal benefits 598,888 795,743 781,250 624,995 614,819 
Suppliers 2,492,574 2,562,231 2,496,299 2,598,400 2,592,697 
   Payments to corporate entities 59,646 57,600 55,884 54,186 53,486 
Total cash used 5,350,439 4,795,687 4,561,196 4,177,687 4,065,356 
Net cash from/(used by)
  operating activities (4,477,658) (3,919,084) (3,685,452) (3,281,883) (3,162,430)
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Repayments of advances 
  and loans 251,698 277,598 302,287 315,296 316,611 
Total cash received 251,698 277,598 302,287 315,296 316,611 
Cash used
Advances and loans made 489,551 524,653 547,608 601,140 652,959 
Total cash used 489,551 524,653 547,608 601,140 652,959 
Net cash from/(used by)
  investing activities (237,853) (247,055) (245,321) (285,844) (336,348)
Net increase/(decrease) 
  in cash held (4,715,511) (4,166,139) (3,930,773) (3,567,727) (3,498,778)
Cash and cash equivalents at
  beginning of reporting period 9,742 15,673 16,316 17,468 18,636 
Cash from Official Public 
  Account for:
- Appropriations 5,611,363 5,083,555 4,879,092 4,539,703 4,480,082 
Total cash from Official 
  Public Account 5,611,363 5,083,555 4,879,092 4,539,703 4,480,082 
Cash to Official Public 
  Account for:
- Appropriations (889,921) (916,773) (947,167) (970,808) (980,130)
Total cash to Official Public 
  Account (889,921) (916,773) (947,167) (970,808) (980,130)
Cash and cash equivalents
  at end of reporting period 15,673 16,316 17,468 18,636 19,810   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 66  |  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
Table 3.10: Schedule of administered capital budget statement (for the period 
ended 30 June)  
The department has no administered capital budget therefore Table 3.10 is not presented.  
Table 3.11: Statement of administered asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
The department has no administered asset movements therefore Table 3.11 is not 
presented.  
. 
 Asbestos and Silica Safety and 
Eradication Agency  
 
Entity resources and planned 
performance   
Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication  Agency   |  Page 69 Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication 
Agency  
Section 1: Entity overview and resources  ................................ ................................  71 
1.1 Strategic direction statement  ................................ ................................ ......................  71 
1.2 Entity resource statement ................................ ................................ ...........................  72 
1.3 Budget measures  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 73 
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  ................................ .....................  74 
2.1 Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1  ................................ ................  75 
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ................................  78 
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ................................ ...................  78 
3.2 Budgeted financial statements tables  ................................ ................................ .........  79  
Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency   |  Page 71 Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication 
Agency  
Section 1: Entity overview and reso urces  
1.1 Strategic direction statement  
In December 2023 the agency’s name changed to the Asbestos and Silica Safety and 
Eradication Agency (ASSEA). ASSEA is established by the Asbestos and Silica Safety and 
Eradication Agency Act 2013  (the ASSEA Act).  
ASSEA’s functions are to oversee national actions to improve asbestos awareness and the 
effective and safe management, removal, and disposal of asbestos through coordinating the 
implementation of the Asbestos National Strategic Plan. Amendments to the ASSEA  Act 
which came into force on 15 December 2023 extended the agency’s functions to include 
assisting in the prevention of exposure to respirable crystalline silica and silica related 
disease in Australia. ASSEA’s outcome statement is also amended to includ e the silica 
function.  
ASSEA’s 2024 –25 Operational Plan when published on ASSEA’s website will provide 
further detail on the activities to be achieved over the coming 12 months.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 72  |  Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency  
1.2 Entity resource statement  
Table 1.1 shows the total resourcing from all sources available to the Asbestos and Silica 
Safety and Eradication Agency for its operations and to deliver programs and services on 
behalf of the Government.  
The table summarises how resources will be applied by outcome (government strategic 
policy objectives) and by administered (on behalf of the Government or the public) and 
departmental (for the entity’s operations) classification.  
For more detailed information on special accounts and special appropriations, please refer 
to the Budget Paper No. 4 – Agency Resourcing .  
Information in this table is presented on a resourcing (that is, appropriations/cash 
available) basis, whilst the ‘Budgeted expenses by Outcome’ tables in Section 2 and the 
financial statements in Section 3 are presented on an accrual basis. Amounts presen ted 
below are consistent with amounts presented in the Appropriation Bills themselves.  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency   |  Page 73 
Table 1.1: Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency  resource 
statement  – Budget estimates for 2024 –25 as at Budget May 2024  
 
Prepared on a resourcing (i.e. appropriations available) basis.  
All figures shown above are GST exclusive — these may not match figures in the cash flow statement.  
(a) Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 2024 –2025.  
(b) Excludes departmental capital budget (DCB).  
(c) Capital budgets are not separately identified in Appropriation Bill (No.1) and form part of ordinary annual 
services items. Please refer to Table 3.5 for further details on capital budgets. For accounting purposes, 
capital budget appropriations have been d esignated as a 'contribution by owner'.  
 
1.3 Budget measures  
ASSEA has no measures announced since the 2023 –24 Mid -Year Economic and Fiscal 
Outlook. For this reason, Table 1.2 is not presented.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25 
Estimate
$'000
Departmental
Annual appropriations - ordinary annual services (a)
    Prior year appropriations available 4,929 4,710 
    Departmental appropriation (b) 5,492 5,816 
    Departmental capital budget (c) 59 60 
Total departmental annual appropriations 10,480 10,586 
Total departmental resourcing 10,480 10,586 
Total resourcing for Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency 10,480 10,586 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 20 21   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 74  |  Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency  
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by the 
Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the primary 
vehicle by which government entities achieve the intended results of their outcome 
stateme nts. Entities are required to identify the programs which contribute to government 
outcomes over the Budget and forward years.  
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs. 
The following  provides detailed information on expenses for each outcome and program, 
further broken down by funding source.  
Note:  
Performance reporting requirements in the Portfolio Budget Statements are part of the 
Commonwealth performance framework established by the Public Governance, Performance 
and Accountability Act 2013  (PGPA Act) . It is anticipated that the performance measure 
described in Portfolio Budget Statements will be read with broader information provided 
in an entity ’s corporate plans and annual performance statements – included in 
Annual  Reports  – to provide a complete picture of an entity ’s planned and actual 
perfor mance.  
Amendments to the Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency Act 2013  which came 
into force on 15 December 2023 included stating  that the annual operational plan is taken 
to be a corporate plan for the purposes of the PGPA Act. Prior to this the Asbestos National 
Strategic Plan was taken to be the entity’s corporate plan for the purposes of the 
PGPA  Act. However, the Asbestos National Strategic Plan was designed to be 
implemented by all governments across Australia and did not include the requirement s 
of corporate plans under the PGPA Act.  
The most recent corporate plan for the ASSEA can be found at : 
https://www.asbestossafety.gov.au/research -publications/2023 -2024 -annual -
operational -and-corporate -plan . 
The most recent annual performance statement can be found at: 
https://www.asbestossafety.gov.au/research -publications/annual -report -2022 -23. 
 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency   |  Page 75 
2.1 Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1 
Outcome 1: Assist in the prevention of exposure to asbestos fibres and respirable crystalline 
silica, to eliminate asbestos and silica related disease in Australia through coordinating the 
implementation of the Asbestos National Strategic Plan and the Silica National Strategic Pla n. 
 
Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 
This table shows how much the entity intends to spend (on an accrual basis) on achieving 
the outcome, broken down by program, as well as by Administered and Departmental 
funding sources . 
Table 2. 1.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 
 
Note: Departmental appropriation splits and totals are indicative estimates and may change in the course of 
the budget year as government priorities change.  
(a) Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year are made up of depreciation expenses, 
amortisation expenses, and audit fees.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Departmental expenses
Departmental appropriation 5,267 5,573 5,616 5,726 6,089 
Expenses not requiring
  appropriation in the Budget
  year (a) 590 590 590 467 201 
Departmental total 5,857 6,163 6,206 6,193 6,290 
Total expenses for program 1.1 5,857 6,163 6,206 6,193 6,290 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 20 21 Outcome 1: Assist in the prevention of exposure to asbestos fibres and respirable crystalline silica, to 
eliminate asbestos and silica related disease in Australia through coordinating the implementation of the 
Asbestos National Strategic Plan and the Silica National Strategic Plan.
Program 1.1: Coordinate national actions to improve knowledge and awareness of issues relating to 
asbestos safety, asbestos-related diseases, silica safety and silica-related diseases.  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 76  |  Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency  
Table 2.1.2: Performance measures for Outcome 1  
Table 2.1.2 details the performance measures for each program associated with Outcome 1. 
It is used by entities  to describe the results they plan to achieve and the related key 
activities , as detailed in the current corporate plan , the context in which these activities are 
delivered , and how the performance of these activities will be measured. Where relevant, 
details of the 2024–25 Budget measures that have created new programs or materially 
changed existing programs are provided.   
Outcome 1 – Assist in the prevention of exposure to asbestos fibres and respirable crystalline 
silica, to eliminate asbestos and silica related disease in Australia through coordinating the 
implementation of the Asbestos National Strategic Plan and the Silica National Strategic Plan.  
Program 1.1 - Coordinate national actions to improve knowledge and awareness of issues relating 
to asbestos safety, asbestos -related diseases, silica safety and silica -related diseases.  
 
This program contributes to Outcome 1 by encouraging, coordinating, monitoring and reporting on the 
implementation of the National Strategic Plans for asbestos and silica, which are central to the delivery of 
measures to prevent exposure to asbestos and re spirable crystalline silica in Australia.  
Key Activities (a)  The key activities will be reported in ASSEA’s Operational Plan that relate to this 
program are:  
• Assisting governments to implement the Asbestos National Strategic Plan and 
the Silica National Strategic Plan through consultation, collaboration and 
cooperation . 
• Improving the collection of data to measure progress in achieving the aims of the 
Asbestos National Strategic Plan and the Silica National Strategic Plan . 
• Developing and distributing communication resources that can be easily adopted 
by governments and other stakeholders . 
• Conducting research to inform evidence -based policies and strategies for 
asbestos and silica . 
• Continuing to assist South -East Asian and Pacific countries in moving towards 
implementing asbestos bans . 
Year  Performance measures  Expected Performance Results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 National policies and standards are 
developed  and research is 
commissioned.  
 Target: 1 -2 items by 6 months; 2 -4 items 
by 12 months . 
 
Achieved  
National Asbestos Awareness Campaign 
is successfully delivered.  Target: Whole of Government 
advertising campaign benchmarks are 
met or exceeded. Key message recall 
benchmark is met or exceeded.  
 
On Track  
Access to a range of data sets secured.  Target: Minimum 4 data sharing 
agreements negotiated or data sets 
sourced.  
 
Achieved  
New partnerships and engagements 
fostered  and model training, guidance 
and regulations developed and 
distributed.  
 Target: Minimum of 4 engagements or 
presentations at international asbestos 
forums.  
 
2-4 model asbestos modules developed 
and distributed.  
 
Achieved  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency   |  Page 77 
Year  Performance measures  Expected Performance Results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 Third phase of the Asbestos National 
Strategic Plan is developed and 
implemented.  Target: At least 6 out of 9 jurisdictions 
have endorsed the Asbestos National 
Strategic Plan.  
 
On Track  
Year  Performance measures (b)  Planned Performance Results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 National policies and standards are 
developed and research is 
commissioned.  1-2 items by 6 months  
2-4 items by 12 months  
Targeted asbestos and silica awareness 
campaigns successfully delivered  Whole of Government advertising 
campaign benchmarks are met or 
exceeded.  
 
Key message recall benchmark is met or 
exceeded . 
Access to a range of data sets secured  Minimum 5 data sharing agreements 
negotiated  or data sets sourced.  
International leadership is fostered by 
supporting efforts to prevent asbestos 
and silica exposure.  Minimum of 4 engagements or 
presentations at international asbestos 
and/or silica forums.  
 
2-4 initiatives developed to promote 
reforms and/or build capacity in target 
countries.  
Silica National Strategic Plan developed 
and implementation commenced  At least 6 out of 9 jurisdictions endorse 
the Silica National Strategic  
Plan 2024 –30. 
Implementation of the third phase 
Asbestos National Strategic Plan has 
commenced  Two forums to assist implementation are 
held and a report on implementation is 
published.  
Forward Estimates  
2025 –28 As per 2024 –25 
 As per 2024 –25 
 
Material changes to Program 1.1 resulting from 2024 –25 Budget Measures: Nil . 
(a) Refers to updated key activities outlined in Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency Act 2013  
to reflect the addition of the responsibility for silica and will be shown in the 2024 –25 Operational Plan.  
(b) New or modified performance measures that reflect new or materially changed programs are shown in 
italics.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 78  |  Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency  
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  
Section 3 presents budgeted financial statements which provide a comprehensive snapshot 
of entity finances for the 2024 –25 budget year, including the impact of budget measures 
and resourcing on financial statements.  
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  
3.1.1  Differences between entity resourcing and financial statements  
ASSEA has nil differences to report.  
3.1.2  Explanatory notes and analysis of budgeted financial statements  
ASSEA is budgeting for a break -even operating position, excluding net unappropriated 
items  of $0.3 million for the 2024 –25 financial year.  
Total income  is estimated to be $5.9 million  and total expenses $6.2 million.  
Total assets at the end of 2024 –25 financial year are estimated to be $5.8 million.  
The majority of the assets represent appropriations receivable .  
Total liabilities at the end of 2024 –25 financial year are estimated to be $1.7 million, and 
largely consist of employee provisions and right -of-use lease liabilities.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency   |  Page 79 
3.2 Budgeted financial statements tables  
Table 3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services) for 
the period ended 30  June  
 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
EXPENSES
Employee benefits 3,003 3,207 3,211 3,193 3,284 
Suppliers 2,301 2,411 2,458 2,595 2,872 
Depreciation and amortisation (a) 522 522 522 399 133 
Finance costs 31 23 15 6 1 
Total expenses 5,857 6,163 6,206 6,193 6,290 
LESS: 
OWN-SOURCE INCOME
Gains
Other 68 68 68 68 68 
Total gains 68 68 68 68 68 
Total own-source income 68 68 68 68 68 
Net (cost of)/contribution by
  services (5,789) (6,095) (6,138) (6,125) (6,222)
Revenue from Government 5,492 5,816 5,879 5,981 6,172 
Surplus/(deficit) attributable to the
  Australian Government (297) (279) (259) (144) (50)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) (297) (279) (259) (144) (50)
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
  attributable to the Australian
  Government (297) (279) (259) (144) (50)  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 80  |  Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency  
Table 3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services) for 
the period ended 30  June (continued)  
Note: Impact of net cash appropriation arrangements  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) From 2010 –11, the Government introduced net cash appropriation arrangements where Bill 1 revenue 
appropriations for the depreciation/amortisation expenses of non -corporate Commonwealth entities 
(and select corporate Commonwealth entities) were replaced wit h a separate capital budget 
(the Departmental Capital Budget, or DCB) provided through Bill 1 equity appropriations. 
For information  regarding DCBs, please refer to Table 3.5 Departmental Capital Budget Statement.  
(b) Applies to leases under AASB 16 Leases.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
  - as per statement of
  Comprehensive Income (297) (279) (259) (144) (50)
plus: depreciation/amortisation of assets
  funded through appropriations
  (departmental capital budget funding
  and/or equity injections) (a) 271 271 271 172 62 
plus: depreciation/amortisation
  expenses for ROU assets (b) 251 251 251 227 71 
less: lease principal repayments (b) 225 243 263 255 83 
Net Cash Operating Surplus/ (Deficit) - - - - - Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency   |  Page 81 
Table  3.2: Budg eted departmental balance sheet (as at 30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
*Equity is the residual interest in assets after the deduction of liabilities.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 124 124 124 124 124 
Trade and other receivables 4,780 4,780 4,747 4,747 4,747 
Total financial assets         4,904         4,904         4,871         4,871         4,871 
Non-financial assets
Land and buildings 800 549 298 71 - 
Property, plant and equipment 561 350 172 62 62 
Other non-financial assets 10 10 10 10 10 
Total non-financial assets         1,371            909            480            143              72 
Assets held for sale
Total assets          6,275          5,813          5,351          5,014          4,943 
LIABILITIES
Payables
Suppliers 195 195 195 195 195 
Personal benefits 72 72 72 72 72 
Total payables            267            267            267            267            267 
Interest bearing liabilities
Leases 844 601 338 83 - 
Total interest bearing liabilities            844            601            338              83                 - 
Provisions
Employee provisions 829 829 829 829 829 
Total provisions            829            829            829            829            829 
Total liabilities          1,940          1,697          1,434          1,179          1,096 
Net assets          4,335          4,116          3,917          3,835          3,847 
EQUITY*
Parent entity interest
Contributed equity 585 645 705 767 829 
Retained surplus (accumulated
  deficit) 3,750 3,471 3,212 3,068 3,018 
Total parent entity interest 4,335 4,116 3,917 3,835 3,847 
Total equity 4,335 4,116 3,917 3,835 3,847   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 82  |  Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency  
Table 3.3: Departmental statement of changes in equity  – summary of  movement 
(Budget year 2024 –25)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
Retained
earnings
$'000Asset
revaluation
reserve
$'000Other
reserves
$'000Contributed
equity/
capital
$'000Total
equity 
$'000
Opening balance as at 1 July 2024
Balance carried forward from
  previous period 3,750 - - 585 4,335 
Adjusted opening balance 3,750 - - 585 4,335 
Comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income - 
Surplus/(deficit) for the period (279) - - - (279)
Total comprehensive income (279) - - - (279)
of which:
Attributable to the Australian
  Government (279) - - - (279)
Transactions with owners
Contributions by owners
Departmental Capital Budget (DCB) - - - 60 60 
Sub-total transactions with
  owners 3,471 - - 645 4,116 
Estimated closing balance as at
  30 June 2025 3,471 - - 645 4,116 
Closing balance attributable to
  the Australian Government 3,471 - - 645 4,116 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency   |  Page 83 
Table 3.4: Budgeted depar tmental statement of cash flows (for the period ended  
30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Appropriations 5,492 5,816 5,912 5,981 6,172 
Total cash received 5,492 5,816 5,912 5,981 6,172 
Cash used
Employees 3,003 3,207 3,211 3,193 3,284 
Suppliers 2,233 2,343 2,390 2,527 2,804 
Interest payments on lease liability 31 23 15 6 1 
Total cash used 5,267 5,573 5,616 5,726 6,089 
Net cash from/(used by)
  operating activities 225 243 296 255 83 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Cash used
Purchase of property, plant and
  equipment and intangibles 59 60 93 62 62 
Total cash used 59 60 93 62 62 
Net cash from/(used by)
  investing activities (59) (60) (93) (62) (62)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Contributed equity 59 60 60 62 62 
Total cash received 59 60 60 62 62 
Cash used
Principal payments on lease liability 225 243 263 255 83 
Total cash used 225 243 263 255 83 
Net cash from/(used by)
  financing activities (166) (183) (203) (193) (21)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
  held - - - - - 
Cash and cash equivalents at the
  beginning of the reporting period 124 124 124 124 124 
Cash and cash equivalents at
  the end of the reporting period 124 124 124 124 124   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 84  |  Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency  
Table 3.5: Departmental capital budget statement (for the period ended 30 June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Includes purchases from current and previous years' DCBs.  
(b) Includes the following s74 external receipts:  
- sponsorship, subsidy, gifts or similar contribution;  
- internally developed assets; and  
- proceeds from the sale of assets.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
NEW CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS
Capital budget - Bill 1 (DCB) 59 60 60 62 62 
Total new capital appropriations 59 60 60 62 62 
Provided for:
Purchase of non-financial assets 59 60 60 62 62 
Total items 59 60 60 62 62 
PURCHASE OF NON-FINANCIAL
  ASSETS
Funded by capital appropriation -
  DCB (a) 59 60 60 62 62 
Funded internally from departmental
  resources (b) - - 33 - - 
TOTAL 59 60 93 62 62 
RECONCILIATION OF CASH USED
  TO ACQUIRE ASSETS TO ASSET
  MOVEMENT TABLE
Total purchases 59 60 93 62 62 
Total cash used to acquire assets 59 60 93 62 62 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency   |  Page 85 
Table 3.6: Statement of departmental asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) ‘Appropriation ordinary annual services’ refers to funding provided through  
Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 2024 –2025 for depreciation/amortisation expenses, DCBs or other operational 
expenses.  
  
Buildings
$'000Other
property,
plant and
equipment
$'000Other
$'000Total
$'000
As at 1 July 2024
Gross book value - 1,014 - 1,014 
Gross book value - ROU assets 1,206 - - 1,206 
Accumulated depreciation/
  amortisation and impairment - (453) - (453)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation
  and impairment - ROU assets (406) - - (406)
Opening net book balance 800 561 - 1,361 
Capital asset additions
Estimated expenditure on new
  or replacement assets
By purchase - appropriation
  ordinary annual services (a) - 60 - 60 
Total additions - 60 - 60 
Other movements
Depreciation/amortisation expense - (271) - (271)
Depreciation/amortisation on 
  ROU assets (251) - - (251)
Total other movements (251) (271) - (522)
As at 30 June 2025
Gross book value - 1,074 - 1,074 
Gross book value - ROU assets 1,206 - - 1,206 
Accumulated depreciation/
  amortisation and impairment - (724) - (724)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation
  and impairment - ROU assets (657) - - (657)
Closing net book balance 549 350 - 899   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 86  |  Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency  
Table  3.7: Schedule of budgeted income and expenses administered on behalf of 
Government (for the period ended 30  June)   
ASSEA has no administered income and expenses and therefore Table 3.7 is not presented.  
Table 3.8: Schedule of budgeted assets and liabilities administered on behalf of 
Government (as at 30 June)  
ASSEA has no administered assets and liabilities and therefore Table 3.8 is not presented.  
Table 3.9: Schedule of budgeted administered cash flows (for  the period ended 
30 June)  
ASSEA has no administered cash flows and therefore Table 3.9 is not presented.  
Table 3.10: Schedule of administered capital budget statement (for the period 
ended 30 June)  
ASSEA has no administered capital budget and therefore Table 3.10 is not presented.  
Table 3.11: Statement of administered asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
ASSEA has no administered assets and therefore Table 3.11 is not presented.  
  
 Australian Skills Quality 
Authority  
 
Entity resources and planned 
performance   
Australian Skills Quality Authority   |  Page 89 Australian Skills Quality Authority  
Section 1: Entity overview and resources  ................................ ................................  91 
1.1 Strategic direction statement  ................................ ................................ ......................  91 
1.2 Entity resource statement ................................ ................................ ...........................  93 
1.3 Budget measures  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 95 
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  ................................ .....................  96 
2.1  Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1  ................................ ................  97 
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ..............................  100 
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ................................ .................  100 
3.2 Budgeted financial statements tables  ................................ ................................ ....... 101 
  
Australian Skills Quality Authority   |  Page 91 Australian Skills Quality Authority  
Section 1: Entity overview and reso urces  
1.1 Strategic direction statement  
As Australia’s national regulator of the Vocational Education and Training (VET) sector, 
the Australian Skills Quality Authority’s (ASQA) purpose is to ensure quality VET so that 
students, industry, governments, and the community have confidence in the int egrity of 
national qualifications issued by training providers.  
ASQA regulates providers that deliver:  
• VET qualifications and courses to students in Australia or offer Australian qualifications 
internationally  
• VET courses to overseas students – approved on the Commonwealth Register of 
Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students (CRICOS) to teach overseas students on 
student visas in Australia  
• English Language Intensive Courses for Overseas Students (ELICOS) – approved on the 
CRICOS.  
ASQA accredits VET courses to make sure nationally approved standards are met, based 
on established industry, enterprise, education, legislative or community need.  
ASQA supports confidence in the integrity of national qualifications issued by training 
providers by:  
• ensuring its monitoring, compliance, enforcement, and education activities make full 
use of intelligence and data so that the community are confident that our activities are 
based on risk  
• maintaining essential safeguards by responding adeptly to non -compliance and taking 
effective action, applying a range of compliance and enforcement activities 
proportionate to the level of harm , and  
• using education as a key regulatory tool and providing feedback that enables regulated 
entities to take responsibility for meeting their obligations, and supports providers to 
address risks and monitor, evaluate and continuously improve VET outcomes.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 92  |  Australian Skills Quality Authority  
ASQA’s priorities for the year ahead  
ASQA’s priorities for the coming year focus on enhancing the VET sector’s capacity to 
address Australia’s skills needs amidst evolving economic and social challenges. 
Key priorities include:  
• Implementing amendments to the National Vocational Education and Training Regulator 
(NVETR) Act  2011  that give ASQA greater powers to protect vulnerable students, take 
action against non -genuine providers, and ensure suitability at market entry.  
• Through its Integrity Unit, uplifting ASQA’s investigation, enforcement and intelligence 
capability including multi -agency compliance operations.  
• Collaborating with DEWR and stakeholders to prepare for the implementation of 
revised Standards for Registered Training Organisations (RTOs), including 
development of differentiated regulatory strategies, and guidance to enhance  sector 
capacity for continuous quality improvement.  
• Responding to government policy objectives for VET including supporting a more 
integrated approach between higher education, VET, and migration systems.   
• Providing its workforce with the right tools including by progressively implementing 
digital enhancements to improve our regulatory capacity, service delivery and 
effectiveness.  
Through these priorities , ASQA aims to bolster the VET sector’s  role in Australia’s national 
development, ensuring it meets current and future demands while maintaining high 
standards of education and integrity.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Australian Skills Quality Authority   |  Page 93 
1.2 Entity resource statement  
Table 1.1 shows the total resourcing from all sources available to the Australian Skills 
Quality Authority for its operations and to deliver programs and services on behalf of the 
Government.  
The table summarises how resources will be applied by outcome (government strategic 
policy objectives) and by administered (on behalf of the Government or the public) and 
departmental (for the entity’s operations) classification.  
For more detailed information on special accounts and special appropriations, please refer 
to the Budget Paper No. 4 – Agency Resourcing .  
Information in this table is presented on a resourcing (that is, appropriations/cash 
available) basis, whilst the ‘Budgeted expenses by Outcome 1’ tables in Section 2 and the 
financial statements in Section 3 are presented on an accrual basis. Amounts pres ented 
below are consistent with amounts presented in the Appropriation Bills themselves.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 94  |  Australian Skills Quality Authority  
Table 1.1: Australian Skills Quality Authority resource statement  – Budget 
estimates for 2024 –25 as at Budget May 2024  
 
Prepared on a resourcing (i.e. appropriations available) basis.  
All figures shown above are GST exclusive — these may not match figures in the cash flow statement.  
(a) Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 2024 –2025.  
(b) Excludes departmental capital budget (DCB).  
(c) Capital budgets and Administered payments to other jurisdictions are not separately identified in 
Appropriation Bill (No.  1) and form part of ordinary annual services items. Please refer to Table 3.5 for 
further details on capital budgets. For accounting purposes, capital budget appropriations have been 
designated as a 'contribution by owner'.  
(d) Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 2024 –2025 . 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25 
Estimate
$'000
Departmental
Annual appropriations - ordinary annual services (a)
    Prior year appropriations available 14,687 13,582 
    Departmental appropriation (b) 43,284 47,117 
    Departmental capital budget (c) 3,306 4,930 
Annual appropriations - other services - non-operating (d)
    Equity injection 1,157 - 
Total departmental annual appropriations 62,434 65,629 
Total departmental resourcing 62,434 65,629 
Administered
Total administered special appropriations 357 357 
Total administered resourcing 357 357 
Total resourcing for ASQA 62,791 65,986 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 212 225 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Australian Skills Quality Authority   |  Page 95 
1.3 Budget measures  
Budget measures in part 1 relating to Australian Skills Quality Authority are detailed in the 
Budget Paper No. 2 and are summarised below.  
Table 1.2: Entity 2024 –25 Budget measures  
Part 1: Measures announced since the 2023 –24 Mid -Year Economic and Fiscal 
Outlook (MYEFO)  
 
Prepared on a Government Finance Statistics (Underlying Cash) basis. Figures displayed as a negative ( -) 
represent a decrease in funds and a positive (+) represent an increase in funds.  
(a) The measure titled Australian Universities Accord — tertiary education system reforms is a Cross 
Portfolio measure. The full measure description and package details appear in Budget Paper No. 2 
under Cross Portfolio.  
(b) This is a Whole of Government savings measure. The full measure description and package details 
appear in Budget Paper No. 2 under Cross portfolio.  
  
Program2023-24
$'0002024-25
$'0002025-26
$'0002026-27
$'0002027-28
$'000
Payment measures
Amendments to the National
  Vocational Education and
  Training Regulator Act 2011 1.1 
Administered payment - - - - - 
Departmental payment -           256 259 263 266 
Total -           256 259 263 266 
Australian Universities Accord –
  tertiary education system
  reforms (a) 1.1 
Administered payment - - - - - 
Departmental payment - 1,334 - - - 
Total - 1,334 - - - 
Savings from External 
  Labour – extension (b) 1.1 
Administered payment - - - - - 
Departmental payment - (62) (78) (74) (388)
Total - (62) (78) (74) (388)
Total payment measures
Administered - - - - - 
Departmental - 1,528 181 189 (122)
Total -        1,528           181           189          (122)  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 96  |  Australian Skills Quality Authority  
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by the 
Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the primary 
vehicle by which government entities achieve the intended results of their outcome 
stateme nts. Entities are required to identify the programs which contribute to government 
outcomes over the Budget and forward years.  
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs. 
The following  provides detailed information on expenses for each outcome and program, 
further broken down by funding source.  
Note:  
Performance reporting requirements in the Portfolio Budget Statements are part of the 
Commonwealth performance framework established by the Public Governance, Performance 
and Accountability Act 2013 . It is anticipated that the performance measure described in 
Portfolio Budget Statements will be read with broader information provided in an entity ’s 
corporate plans and annual performance statements – included in Annual Reports  – to 
provide a complete picture of an entity ’s planned and actual performance.  
The most recent corporate plan and annual performance statement for ASQA can be found 
at: (www.asqa.gov.au ). 
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Australian Skills Quality Authority   |  Page 97 
2.1  Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1 
Outcome 1: Through our regulation and partnership with stakeholders, ensure quality vocational 
education and training so that students, employers,  the community and governments have 
confidence in the integrity of national qualifications issued by training providers.  
 
Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1  
This table shows  how much the entity intends to spend (on an accrual basis) on achieving 
the outcome, broken down by program, as well as by Administered an d Departmental 
funding sources.  
Table 2. 1.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 
 
Note: Departmental appropriation splits and totals are indicative estimates and may change in the  
course of the budget year as government priorities change.  
(a) Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year are made up of depreciation expenses, 
amortisation expenses, make good expenses, audit fees, and approved operating loss.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Program 1.1: Regulation and advice
Departmental expenses
Departmental appropriation 43,345 47,329 46,814 47,261 44,933 
Expenses not requiring
  appropriation in the Budget
  year (a)5,150 4,824 3,049 1,589 1,589 
Departmental total 48,495 52,153 49,863 48,850 46,522 
Total expenses for program 1.1 48,495 52,153 49,863 48,850 46,522 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 211 225 Outcome 1: Through our regulation and partnership with stakeholders, ensure quality vocational 
education and training so that students, employers, the community and governments have confidence in 
the integrity of national qualifications issued by training providers.  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 98  |  Australian Skills Quality Authority  
Table 2.1. 2: Performance measures for Outcome 1  
Table 2. 1.2 details the performance measures for each program associated with Outcome 1. 
It is used by entities to describe the results they plan to achieve and the related key 
activities , as detailed in the current corporate plan , the context in which these activities are 
delivered , and how the performance of these activities will be measured. Where relevant, 
details of the 2024–25 Budget measures that have created new programs or materially 
changed existing programs are provided.   
Outcome 1  – Through our regulation and partnership with stakeholders, ensure quality vocational 
education and training so that students, employers, the community and governments have 
confidence in the integrity of national qualifications issued by training provider s. 
Program 1.1 - Regulation  
 
To ensure quality vocational education and training so that students, employers, governments and the 
community have confidence in the integrity of national qualifications issued by training providers.  
Key Activities  Key activities reported in the current corporate plan that relate to this program : 
• registering training providers to provide national qualifications  
• accrediting national courses to meet statutory requirements  
• delivering education activities relating to the regulation of RTOs and to support 
compliance  
• promoting provider capacity to deliver quality VET and continuously improve 
outcomes through effective self -assurance  
• analysing data, intelligence and information to identify and respond  
proportionately to risk  
• monitoring provider performance against applicable standards and obligations  
• deploying a range of compliance and enforcement actions  
• partnering with stakeholders to improve the impact and effectiveness of our 
regulatory activities  
• publishing information about our regulatory functions, outputs, decisions and 
insights about sector performance  
• publishing information about our performance  
• engaging with policy agencies and other stakeholders to support reform and 
improve regulatory outcomes.  
Year  Performance measures  Expected Performance Results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 ASQA delivers improved provider self -
assurance and continuous quality 
improvement.  On Track  
 
ASQA regulation is best practice, 
integrated, risk -based and  proportionate.  On Track  
ASQA’s regulatory approach and 
performance is transparent and 
accountable.     On Track  
ASQA’s engagement and partnerships 
provide clarity of the role of the national 
regulator and improve regulatory impact  
ASQA is efficient, effective , and 
continuously improves.  On Track  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Australian Skills Quality Authority   |  Page 99 
Year  Performance measures  Planned Performance Results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 ASQA delivers improved provider self -
assurance and continuous quality 
improvement.  
 
ASQA regulation is best practice, 
integrated, risk -based and  proportionate.  
 
ASQA’s regulatory approach and 
performance is transparent and 
accountable.  
 
ASQA’s engagement and partnerships 
provide clarity of the role of the national 
regulator and improve regulatory impact   
 
ASQA is efficient, effective , and 
continuously improves.  TARGET:  to achieve the performance 
targets set out in the ASQA Corporate 
Plan 2024 –25 for each of the 
performance criteria.  
Forward Estimates  
2025 –28 As per 2024 –25 As per 2024 –25 
Material changes to Program 1.1 resulting from 2024 -25 Budget Measures: These measures may have 
been deemed as immaterial.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 100  |  Australian Skills Quality Authority  
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  
Section 3 presents budgeted financial statements which provide a comprehensive snapshot 
of entity finances for the 2024 –25 budget year, including the impact of budget measures 
and resourcing on financial statements.  
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  
3.1.1  Differences between entity resourcing and financial statements  
ASQA has nil differences to report.  
3.1.2  Explanatory notes and analysis of budgeted financial statements  
Budgeted departmental comprehensive income statement  
Expenses for 2024 –25 are estimated to be $ 52.2 million. This reflects an increase 
of $3.7 million from estimated actual expenses for 2023 –24.  
ASQA’s income statement reflects deficits across the forward estimates. 
The estimated  deficit for 2024 –25 is $5.0 million. These deficits are predominantly 
attributable to the depreciation and amortisation expense for the year.  
Budgeted departmental balance sheet  
ASQA’s net asset position of $ 21.0 million for 202 4–25 represents a  decrease of $0.1 million 
from the 202 3-24 estimated actual. The accumulated deficit of $ 29.7 million in the balance 
sheet predominately represents the accounting treatment applicable to depreciation 
expense.  
Capital acquisitions in 202 4–25 (as shown in Table  3.6) are predominantly planned to 
be $9.8 million in buildings and $4.3 million for enhancement of IT systems .  
Budgeted assets and liabilities represent net receivables and provisions for refunds of 
administered receipts.  
Schedule of budgeted income and expense administered on behalf of Government  
The administered revenue estimate for 2024 –25 is $37.5 million, an increase of $0.1 million 
from the estimated actual revenues from 2023 –24. 
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Australian Skills Quality Authority   |  Page 101 
3.2 Budgeted financial statements tables  
Table  3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services)  for 
the period ended 30  June  
 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
EXPENSES
Employee benefits 28,629 31,207 31,675 32,443 33,339 
Suppliers 12,048 13,757 13,467 12,650 9,313 
Depreciation and amortisation (a) 7,686 6,890 4,647 3,611 3,724 
Finance costs 132 299 74 146 146 
Total expenses 48,495 52,153 49,863 48,850 46,522 
LESS: 
OWN-SOURCE INCOME
Own-source revenue
Other 50 50 50 50 50 
Total own-source revenue 50 50 50 50 50 
Total own-source income 50 50 50 50 50 
Net (cost of services)/contribution by
  services (48,445) (52,103) (49,813) (48,800) (46,472)
Revenue from Government 43,284 47,117 46,530 47,504 45,121 
Surplus/(deficit) attributable to the
  Australian Government (5,161) (4,986) (3,283) (1,296) (1,351)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) (5,161) (4,986) (3,283) (1,296) (1,351)
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
  attributable to the Australian
  Government (5,161) (4,986) (3,283) (1,296) (1,351)  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 102  |  Australian Skills Quality Authority  
Table  3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services)  for 
the period ended 30  June (continued)  
Note: Impact of net cash appropriation arrangements  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) From 2010 –11, the Government introduced net cash appropriation arrangements where Bill 1 revenue 
appropriations for the depreciation/amortisation expenses of non -corporate Commonwealth entities 
(and select corporate Commonwealth entities) were replaced wit h a separate capital budget 
(the Departmental Capital Budget, or DCB) provided through Bill 1 equity appropriations. 
For information  regarding DCBs, please refer to Table 3.5 Departmental Capital Budget Statement.  
(b) Applies to leases under AASB 16 Leases.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
  - as per statement of
  Comprehensive Income (5,161) (4,986) (3,283) (1,296) (1,351)
plus: depreciation/amortisation of assets
  funded through appropriations
  (departmental capital budget funding
  and/or equity injections) (a) 5,100 4,774 2,999 1,539 1,539 
plus: depreciation/amortisation
  expenses for ROU assets (b) 2,586 2,116 1,648 2,072 2,185 
less: lease principal repayments (b) 2,525 1,904 1,364 2,315 2,373 
Net Cash Operating Surplus/ (Deficit) - - - - - Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Australian Skills Quality Authority   |  Page 103 
Table  3.2: Budg eted departmental balance sheet (as at 30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
*Equity is the residual interest in assets after the deduction of liabilities.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 324 324 324 324 324
Trade and other receivables 16,614 19,290 19,285 19,285 19,285
Total financial assets       16,938       19,614       19,609       19,609       19,609 
Non-financial assets
Land and buildings 8,127 14,789 11,963 9,498 6,925
Property, plant and equipment 876 1,098 919 923 937
Intangibles 9,770 10,550 13,424 16,734 16,927
Other non-financial assets 340 340 340 340 340
Total non-financial assets       19,113       26,777       26,646       27,495       25,129 
Total assets        36,051        46,391        46,255        47,104        44,738 
LIABILITIES
Payables
Suppliers 3,795 9,136 9,136 9,136 9,136
Other payables 857 857 857 857 857
Total payables         4,652         9,993         9,993         9,993         9,993 
Interest bearing liabilities
Leases 3,741 8,796 7,432 5,117 2,744
Total interest bearing liabilities         3,741         8,796         7,432         5,117         2,744 
Provisions
Employee provisions 6,104 6,104 6,104 6,104 6,104
Other provisions 469 469 469 469 469
Total provisions         6,573         6,573         6,573         6,573         6,573 
Total liabilities        14,966        25,362        23,998        21,683        19,310 
Net assets        21,085        21,029        22,257        25,421        25,428 
EQUITY*
Parent entity interest
Contributed equity 44,496 49,426 53,937 58,397 59,755 
Reserves 1,272 1,272 1,272 1,272 1,272 
Retained surplus (accumulated
  deficit) (24,683) (29,669) (32,952) (34,248) (35,599)
Total parent entity interest 21,085 21,029 22,257 25,421 25,428 
Total equity 21,085 21,029 22,257 25,421 25,428   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 104  |  Australian Skills Quality Authority  
Table 3.3: Departmental statement of changes in equity  – summary of  movement 
(Budget year 2024 –25) 
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
Retained
earnings
$'000Asset
revaluation
reserve
$'000Other
reserves
$'000Contributed
equity/
capital
$'000Total
equity 
$'000
Opening balance as at 1 July 2024
Balance carried forward from
  previous period (24,683) 1,272 - 44,496 21,085 
Adjusted opening balance (24,683) 1,272 - 44,496 21,085 
Comprehensive income
Surplus/(deficit) for the period (4,986) - - - (4,986)
Total comprehensive income (4,986) - - - (4,986)
Transactions with owners
Contributions by owners
Departmental Capital Budget (DCB) - - - 4,930 4,930 
Sub-total transactions with
  owners - - - 4,930 4,930 
Estimated closing balance as at
  30 June 2025 (29,669) 1,272 - 49,426 21,029 
Closing balance attributable to
  the Australian Government (29,669) 1,272 - 49,426 21,029 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Australian Skills Quality Authority   |  Page 105 
Table 3.4: Budgeted depar tmental statement of cash flows (for the period ended  
30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Appropriations 41,517 44,441 46,535 47,504 45,121 
Total cash received 41,517 44,441 46,535 47,504 45,121 
Cash used
Employees 28,629 31,207 31,675 32,443 33,339 
Suppliers 10,230 8,366 13,417 12,600 9,263 
Interest payments on lease liability 132 299 74 146 146 
Total cash used 38,991 39,872 45,166 45,189 42,748 
Net cash from/(used by)
  operating activities 2,526 4,569 1,369 2,315 2,373 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Cash used
Purchase of property, plant and
  equipment and intangibles 4,464 7,595 4,516 4,460 1,358 
Total cash used 4,464 7,595 4,516 4,460 1,358 
Net cash from/(used by)
  investing activities (4,464) (7,595) (4,516) (4,460) (1,358)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Contributed equity 4,463 4,930 4,511 4,460 1,358 
Total cash received 4,463 4,930 4,511 4,460 1,358 
Cash used
Principal payments on lease liability 2,525 1,904 1,364 2,315 2,373 
Total cash used 2,525 1,904 1,364 2,315 2,373 
Net cash from/(used by)
  financing activities 1,938 3,026 3,147 2,145 (1,015)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
  held - - - - - 
Cash and cash equivalents at the
  beginning of the reporting period 324 324 324 324 324 
Cash and cash equivalents at
  the end of the reporting period 324 324 324 324 324   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 106  |  Australian Skills Quality Authority  
Table  3.5: Departmental capital budget statement (for the period ended 30 June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Includes both current Appropriation Bill (No. 2) and prior  Appropriation Act (No. 2/4/6)  appropriations.  
(b) Includes purchases from current and previous years' DCBs.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
NEW CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS
Capital budget - Bill 1 (DCB) 3,306 4,930 4,511 4,460 1,358 
Equity injections - Bill 2 1,157 - - - - 
Total new capital appropriations 4,463 4,930 4,511 4,460 1,358 
Provided for:
Purchase of non-financial assets 4,463 4,930 4,511 4,460 1,358 
Total items 4,463 4,930 4,511 4,460 1,358 
PURCHASE OF NON-FINANCIAL
  ASSETS
Funded by capital appropriations (a) 1,157 - - - - 
Funded by capital appropriation -
  DCB (b) 3,306 4,930 4,511 4,460 1,358 
TOTAL 4,463 4,930 4,511 4,460 1,358 
RECONCILIATION OF CASH USED
  TO ACQUIRE ASSETS TO ASSET
  MOVEMENT TABLE
Total purchases 4,463 4,930 4,511 4,460 1,358 
Total cash used to acquire assets 4,463 4,930 4,511 4,460 1,358 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Australian Skills Quality Authority   |  Page 107 
Table  3.6: Statement of departmental asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) ‘Appropriation ordinary annual services’ refers to funding provided through  
Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 2024 –2025 for depreciation/amortisation expenses, DCBs or other operational 
expenses.  
  
Buildings
$'000Other
property,
plant and 
equipment
$'000Computer
software and
intangibles
$'000Total
$'000
As at 1 July 2024
Gross book value 6,422 1,816 31,857 40,095 
Gross book value - ROU assets 11,348 - - 11,348 
Accumulated depreciation/
amortisation and impairment (2,028) (940) (22,087) (25,055)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation and 
impairment - ROU assets (7,615) - - (7,615)
Opening net book balance 8,127 876 9,770 18,773 
Capital asset additions
Estimated expenditure on new
  or replacement assets
By purchase - appropriation
  ordinary annual services (a) 2,854 446 4,295 7,595 
By purchase - other - ROU assets 6,959 - - 6,959 
Total additions 9,813 446 4,295 14,554 
Other movements
Depreciation/amortisation expense (1,035) (224) (3,515) (4,774)
Depreciation/amortisation on 
 ROU assets (2,116) - - (2,116)
Disposals 
From disposal of entities or operations
    (including restructuring) on ROU
    assets (3,753) - - (3,753)
Other - ROU assets 3,753 - - 3,753 
Total other movements (3,151) (224) (3,515) (6,890)
As at 30 June 2025
Gross book value 9,276 2,262 36,152 47,690 
Gross book value - ROU assets 14,554 - - 14,554 
Accumulated depreciation/
  amortisation and impairment (3,063) (1,164) (25,602) (29,829)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation and 
impairment - ROU assets - - - (5,978)
Closing net book balance 20,767 1,098 10,550 26,437   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 108  |  Australian Skills Quality Authority  
Table  3.7: Schedule of budgeted income and expenses administered on behalf of 
Government (for the period ended 30  June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OWN-SOURCE INCOME
Own-source revenue
Non-taxation revenue
Fees and fines 37,361 37,468 36,622 36,622 36,622 
Total non-taxation revenue 37,361 37,468 36,622 36,622 36,622 
Total own-source revenue
  administered on behalf of
  Government 37,361 37,468 36,622 36,622 36,622 
Total own-sourced income
  administered on behalf of
  Government 37,361 37,468 36,622 36,622 36,622 
Net (cost of)/contribution by
  services (37,361) (37,468) (36,622) (36,622) (36,622)
Surplus/(deficit) before income tax 37,361 37,468 36,622 36,622 36,622 
Surplus/(deficit) after income tax 37,361 37,468 36,622 36,622 36,622 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 37,361 37,468 36,622 36,622 36,622 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Australian Skills Quality Authority   |  Page 109 
Table  3.8: Schedule of budgeted assets and liabilities administered o n behalf of 
Government (as at 30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
ASSETS 
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 299 299 299 299 299 
Total financial assets 299 299 299 299 299 
Total assets administered on
  behalf of Government 299 299 299 299 299 
LIABILITIES
Provisions
Other provisions 418 418 418 418 418 
Total provisions 418 418 418 418 418 
Total liabilities administered on
  behalf of Government 418 418 418 418 418 
Net assets/(liabilities) (119) (119) (119) (119) (119)  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 110  |  Australian Skills Quality Authority  
Table 3.9: Schedule of budgeted administered cash flows (for the period ended 
30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Sales of goods and rendering of
  services 37,718 37,825 36,979 36,979 36,979 
Total cash received 37,718 37,825 36,979 36,979 36,979 
Cash used
Net cash from/(used by)
  operating activities 37,718 37,825 36,979 36,979 36,979 
Cash from Official Public Account for:
- Appropriations 357 357 357 357 357 
Total cash from Official Public Account 357 357 357 357 357 
Cash to Official Public Account for:
- Appropriations (37,718) (37,825) (36,979) (36,979) (36,979)
Total cash to Official Public Account (37,718) (37,825) (36,979) (36,979) (36,979)
Cash and cash equivalents at
  end of reporting period - - - - - Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Australian Skills Quality Authority   |  Page 111 
Table 3.10: Schedule of administered capital budget statement (for the period 
ended 30 June)   
ASQA has no administered capital budget therefore Table 3.10 is not presented.  
Table 3.11: Statement of administered asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
ASQA has no administered assets therefore Table 3.11 is not presented.  
  
 Comcare and the Seafarers 
Safety, Rehabilitation and 
Compensation Authority  
 
Entity resources and planned 
performance   
Comcare and the Seafarers  Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 115 Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, 
Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
Section 1: Entity overview and resources  ................................ ..............................  117 
1.1 Strategic direction statement  ................................ ................................ ....................  117 
1.2 Entity resource statement ................................ ................................ .........................  120 
1.3 Budget measures  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 123 
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  ................................ ...................  124 
2.1 Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1  ................................ ..............  125 
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ..............................  130 
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ................................ .................  130 
3.2 Budgeted financial statements tables  ................................ ................................ ....... 132 
  
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 117 Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, 
Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
Section 1: Entity overview and reso urces  
1.1 Strategic direction statement  
1.1.1 Comcare  
About Comcare  
Comcare is established under the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988  (SRC Act). 
Comcare has regulatory functions and responsibilities under the SRC Act and 
Work Health  and Safety Act 2011  (WHS Act). Comcare also has non -regulatory 
responsibilities under the Asbestos -related Claims (Management of Commonwealth Liabilities) 
Act 2005, Parliamentary  Injury Compensation Scheme Instrument 2016  and the Seafarers 
Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1992 .   
Comcare is the  Commonwealth work health and safety regulator,  a workers' compensation 
scheme administrator and an insurer and claims manager. It works with employees and 
employers to minimise the incidence and impact of harm in the workplace, improve 
recovery and  return to work outcomes, and support engagement and better practice 
approaches to health and safety across the Comcare scheme.  
Comcare also provides support through expert advice and services to the 
Safety,  Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission (SRCC) and the Seafarers Safety, 
Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority (Seacare Authority).  
Comcare’s purpose and priorities  
Comcare’s purpose is to promote and enable safe and healthy work . Comcare has revised its 
strategic direction for 2024 –25 and will focus on two strategic priorities to deliver on its 
purpose:  
• prevent work related injuries  
• deliver better return to work outcomes.  
Comcare’s new strategic priorities focus the Agency’s efforts and investments towards 
becoming a leader in prevention of psychological injuries in particular, and increasing our 
influence, through sharing insights to more effectively drive positive change with 
employer s and employees . Comcare aims to improve return to work outcomes focusing on 
psychological injuries, actively share learnings and resources and partner with its 
stakeholders to provide support and interventions that better meet the recovery ne eds of 
employees .  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 118  |  Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
The strategic priorities will be enabled by:  
• making data driven decisions  
• uplifting leadership, effectiveness and efficiency  
• delivering client -centric services.  
These enabling priorities focus on building Comcare’s foundational capability to become a 
data -led organisation, with strong alignment on its purpose and clear governance. 
Comcare  also aspires to use feedback and insights from clients’ preferences to shape  
strategy, embed positive connections and co -design accessible services.  
Comcare’s focus for 2024 –25 will be on embedding its new strategic priorities and 
managing legislative change. Comcare will work with the Department of Employment and 
Workplace Relations to embed changes to the SRC Act and WHS Act resulting from the 
Fair Work  Legislation Amendment (Closing Loopholes) Act 2023  and review of the model 
Work  Health and Safety (WHS) Laws .  
Comcare will provide support to the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations, 
as required, for the review of the SRC Act announced under the 2023 –24 Mid -Year 
Economic and Fiscal Outlook . The review will address all aspects of the scheme, including 
governance, usability and entitlements, and provide recommendations to modernise and 
futureproof the scheme.   
1.1.2 Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
The Seacare Authority is established under the S eafarers Rehabilitation and Compensation 
Act 1992  (Seafarers Act), which sets out its functions, powers and responsibilities. 
The Seacare  Authority also has functions, powers and responsibilities under the 
Occupational Health and Safety (Maritime Industry) Act 1993 (OHS(MI) Act).  
The Seacare Authority’s purposes and priorities  
The Seacare Authority’s purposes are derived from its functions and powers under the 
Seafarers Act and OHS(MI) Act. These are:  
• Prom ote healthy and safe workplaces and appropriate and timely compensation for, 
and rehabilitation of, injured workers covered by the Seacare scheme  
• Mainta in a scheme safety net that is able to meet its liabilities.  
The Seacare Authority also manages the Seafarers Safety Net Fund (Fund). 
The Fund  is a safety net “employer” to stand in the place of an extant employer if a default 
event occurs, enabling injured seafarers to make a claim against the Fund when there is no 
employer against whom a claim can be made.  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 119 
The Seacare Authority supports injured workers in the shipping and offshore industry, a 
hazardous industry involving complex operational and safety challenges in very remote 
locations. The Seacare Authority is operating in a climate of fiscal constraint,  while 
structural changes in the shipping industry in Australia and related insurance markets may 
involve a decline in the number of scheme participants.  
The Seacare Authority is not a body corporate and does not employ its own staff. 
To enable  it to perform its functions and exercise its powers, Comcare provides the 
Seacare  Authority with secretariat support and other assistance and makes available the 
services of such members of its staff as the Seacare Authority reasonably requires.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 120  |  Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
1.2 Entity resource statement  
Table 1.1 shows the total resourcing from all sources available to Comcare and the Seafarers 
Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority for its operations and to deliver 
programs and services on behalf of the Government.  
The table summarises how resources will be applied by outcome (government strategic 
policy objectives) and by administered (on behalf of the Government or the public) and 
departmental (for the entity’s operations) classification.  
For more detailed information on special accounts and special appropriations, please refer 
to the Budget Paper No. 4 – Agency Resourcing .  
Information in this table is presented on a resourcing (that is, appropriations/cash 
available) basis, whilst the ‘Budgeted expenses by Outcome 1’ tables in Section 2 and the 
financial statements in Section 3 are presented on an accrual basis. Amounts pres ented 
below are consistent with amounts presented in the Appropriation Bills themselves.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 121 
Table 1.1 .1: Comcare resource statement – Budget estimates for 2024 –25 as at 
Budget May 2024  
 
All figures shown above are GST exclusive - these may not match figures in the cash flow statement.  
(a) Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 2024 –2025.  
(b) Comcare is not directly appropriated as a corporate Commonwealth entity. Grants from its portfolio 
department include special appropriations under the Safety Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 
for the payment of pre -premium costs and the Asbestos -related Claims (Management of Commonwealth 
Liabilities) Act 2005 for asbestos -related claims settlements. In 2023 –24, the amounts received from the 
portfolio department was reduced by $5.284  million  due to the return of excess funds received  
in 2022 –23. 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25 
Estimate
$'000
Opening balance/cash reserves at 1 July 435,278 408,591 
Funds from Government
Annual appropriations - ordinary annual services (a)
Outcome 1 6,029 6,679 
Total annual appropriations 6,029 6,679 
Amounts received from related entities
Amounts from portfolio department (b) 53,617 50,921 
Total amounts received from related entities 53,617 50,921 
Total funds from Government 59,646 57,600 
Funds from industry sources
Licence fees 22,169 28,240 
Total funds from industry sources 22,169 28,240 
Funds from other sources
Interest 26,259 24,773 
Sale of goods and services 4,094 4,339 
Regulatory contributions 22,634 28,769 
Workers' compensation premiums 205,904 240,997 
Total funds from other sources 258,891 298,878 
Total net resourcing for Comcare 775,984 793,309 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 642 646   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 122  |  Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
Table 1.1 .2: Seacare Authority  resource statement – Budget estimates for  
2024 –25 as at Budget May 2024  
 
Prepared on a resourcing (i.e. appropriations available) basis.  
All figures shown above are GST exclusive — these may not match figures in the cash flow statement.  
(a) Amounts credited to the special account(s) from the Seacare Authority's annual appropriations . 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25 
Estimate
$'000
Administered
Special accounts
    Opening balance 1,607 2,585 
    Appropriation receipts (a) 900 
    Non-appropriation receipts 229 169 
Total special account receipts 2,736 2,754 
Total administered resourcing 2,736 2,754 
Total resourcing for Seacare Authority 2,736 2,754 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) - - Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 123 
1.3 Budget measures  
Budget measures in Part 1 relating to  Comcare are detailed in the Budget Paper No.  2 and 
are summarised below.  
Table 1.2: Comcare 2024 –25 Budget measures  
Part 1: Measures announced since  the 2023 –24 Mid -Year Economic and Fiscal 
Outlook (MYEFO)  
 
Prepared on a Government Finance Statistics (Underlying Cash) basis. Figures displayed as a negative ( -) 
represent a decrease in funds and a positive (+) represent an increase in funds.  
(a) The lead entity for measure titled APS Capability Reinvestment Fund: 2024 –25 projects funded under 
round two  is the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The full measure description and 
package details appear in Budget Paper No. 2 under the Prime Minister and Cabinet portfolio.  
(b) This is a Whole of Government savings measure. The full measure description and package details 
appear in Budget Paper No. 2 under Cross Portfolio.   
Program2023-24
$'0002024-25
$'0002025-26
$'0002026-27
$'0002027-28
$'000
Payment measures
APS Capability Reinvestment   
  Fund : 2024‑25 projects
  funded under round two (a)           1.1 
Administered payment - - - - - 
Departmental payment -           507 - - - 
Total -           507 - - - 
Savings from External
  Labour ‑ extension (b)           1.1 
Administered payment - - - - - 
Departmental payment - (5) (5) (6) (40)
Total -              (5) (5) (6) (40)
Total payment measures
Administered - - - - - 
Departmental -           502 (5)             (6) (40)
Total -           502              (5)              (6)            (40)  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 124  |  Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by the 
Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the primary 
vehicle by which government entities achieve the intended results of their outcome 
stateme nts. Entities are required to identify the programs which contribute to government 
outcomes over the Budget and forward years.  
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs. 
The following  provides detailed information on expenses for each outcome and program, 
further broken down by funding source.  
Note:  
Performance reporting requirements in the Portfolio Budget Statements are part of the 
Commonwealth performance framework established by the Public Governance, Performance 
and Accountability Act 2013 . It is anticipated that the performance measure described in 
Portfolio Budget Statements will be read with broader information provided in an entity ’s 
corporate plans and annual performance statements – included in Annual Reports  – to 
provide a complete picture of an entity ’s planned and actual performance.  
Comcare  
The most recent corporate plan for Comcare  can be found at:  
https://www.comcare.gov.au/about/governance/corporate -plan    
The most recent annual performance statement can be found at:  
https://www.comcare.gov.au/about/governance/annual -report   
Seacare Authority  
The most recent corporate plan for  the Seacare Authority  can be found at: 
https://www.seacare.gov.au/about -us/governance -and-accountability/corporate -plan   
The most recent annual performance statement can be found at: 
https://www.seacare.gov.au/about -us/governance -and-accountability/annual -report   
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 125 
2.1 Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1 
Outcome 1: Promote and enable safe and healthy work  
 
Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 
This table shows how much the entity intends to spend (on an accrual basis) on achieving 
the outcome, broken down by program, as well as by Administered an d Departmental 
funding sources.  
Table 2. 1.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 
 
Note: Departmental appropriation splits and totals are indicative estimates and may change in the course of 
the budget year as government priorities change.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Revenue from Government
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1) 6,029 6,679 6,252 6,362 6,438 
Grants received from portfolio department 53,617 50,921 49,632 47,824 47,048 
Expenses not requiring
  appropriation in the budget year (2,244) (3,449) (3,161) (3,162) (3,301)
Revenues from industry sources 22,169 28,240 29,367 29,019 29,481 
Revenues from other independent
  sources 258,891 298,878 292,600 296,090 300,823 
Total expenses for Program 1.1 338,462 381,269 374,690 376,133 380,489 
Revenue from Government
Ordinary annual services
  (Appropriation Bill No. 1)6,029 6,679 6,252 6,362 6,438 
Grants received from portfolio department 53,617 50,921 49,632 47,824 47,048 
Expenses not requiring
  appropriation in the budget year (2,244) (3,449) (3,161) (3,162) (3,301)
Revenues from industry sources 22,169 28,240 29,367 29,019 29,481 
Revenues from other independent
  sources 258,891 298,878 292,600 296,090 300,823 
Total expenses for Outcome 1 338,462 381,269 374,690 376,133 380,489 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 642 646 Outcome 1: Promote and enable safe and healthy work
Program 1.1: Comcare Departmental
Outcome 1 totals by resource type  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 126  |  Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
Table 2. 1.2: Performance measures  for Outcome 1 - Comcare  
Table 2. 1.2 details the performance measures for each program associated with Outcome 1. 
It is used by entities to describe the results they plan to achieve and the related key 
activities , as detailed in the current corporate plan , the context in which these activities are 
delivered , and how the performance of these activities will be measured. 
Where  relevant,  details of the 2024–25 Budget measures that have created new programs or 
materially changed existing programs are provided.   
Outcome 1  – Promote and enable safe and healthy work  
Key Activities (a)  • Be a leader in prevention of psychological injuries in particular, and increase our 
influence, appropriately sharing insights to more effectively drive positive change 
with employers and employees  
• Improve return to work outcomes focusing on psychological injuries, influencing 
and collaborating to deliver support and interventions that better meet the 
recovery needs of employees  
• Uplift technological capabilities to enable easy access to meaningful insights 
from data that support both strategic decisions and day -to-day operations and 
transparent and consistent engagement  
• Reinforce the organisation’s purpose, with impact through empowered 
leadership and decision making at all levels and optimise our governance, 
performance, funding and resource allocation models  
• Uplift our organisational capability to co -design and deliver services that 
anticipate and meet client needs and adapt to changing circumstances  
Year  Performance measures  Expected Performance Results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 Provide quality services to all Comcare 
stakeholders  Assessment – on track  
Consistently manage Commonwealth 
asbestos -related disease claims with 
more equitable and efficient outcomes  Assessment – on track  
Build and embed better regulatory 
practice into Comcare’s work health and 
safety regulatory activities  Assessment – on track  
AAT litigation program resolves disputes 
promptly and with integrity  Assessment – on track  
Deliver contemporary education and 
engagement services that promote and 
enable safe and healthy work  Assessment – on track  
Design and deliver innovative and 
prevention focused initiatives that 
promote and enable safe and healthy 
work  Assessment – on track  
Proactive regulatory activity is targeted  
and prevention focused  Assessment – on track  
Drive national work health and safety 
compliance using a targeted, risk -based 
approach  Assessment – on track  
Undertake strategic and collaborative 
initiatives to promote and enable safe 
and healthy work  Assessment – on track  
The Comcare scheme identifies and 
adopts better practices which enable 
and promote safe and healthy work  Assessment – on track  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 127 
Year  Performance measures  Expected Performance Results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 The Comcare scheme is sustainable as 
evidenced through outcomes achieved 
by scheme participants (including 
financial and return to work outcomes)  Assessment – on track  
Comcare’s workforce is engaged, 
capable and supported in their mental 
health and wellbeing  Assessment – on track  
Year  Performance measures  Planned  Performance Results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 Evaluation  confirms planned outcomes 
of targeted prevention initiatives are 
achieved and inform insights to share 
with the  jurisdiction  Design and implement an evaluation 
framework to measure positive change 
in employers and employees  
Average Commonwealth premium rate  1% of payroll or lower  
% of entities that report improved work 
health and safety practices as a result of 
Comcare’s compliance and enforcement 
activities  Establish a baseline and define targets 
for 2025 –26 and beyond  
% of determinations on injury and 
disease claims for compensation are 
made within statutory timeframes  a) 100% of determinations made for 
injury claims are made within 
20 calendar days  
b) 100% of decisions made for disease 
claims are made within 60 calendar 
days  
% return to work rate  85% for accepted claims initially 
determined within the previous 
24 months  
Maturity rating against Comcare’s Data 
& Analytics Maturity Model  Data maturity rating of level 2 or above  
% of stakeholders that report satisfaction 
with access to our data and reporting 
products  Establish a baseline and define targets 
for 2025 –26 and beyond  
Leadership index ratings based on the 
APS Employee Census and internal 
pulse polls  Establish a baseline and define targets 
for 2025 –26 and beyond  
Employee engagement with Comcare’s 
purpose and objectives scores based on 
the APS Employee Census and internal 
pulse polls  Establish a baseline and define targets 
for 2025 –26 and beyond  
Minimum funding ratio  110%  
Administrative cost ratio  15–25% 
% overall client satisfaction with services  a) Employer satisfaction rating of 75%  
b) Design a new mechanism for 
measuring employee satisfaction  
Maturity rating against a client service 
design and delivery maturity model  Client service design and delivery 
maturity model identified, and baseline 
maturity rating obtained to define targets 
for 2025 –26 and beyond  
Forward Estimates  
2025 –28 As per 2024 –25  To be confirmed when baselines against 
new measures have been established  
Material changes  to Outcome 1  resulting from 2024 –25 Budget Measures: Nil  
(a) Comcare have defined new strategic priorities, key activities and performance measures for 2024 –25 
that will be reflected in Comcare’s Corporate Plan 2024 –25.    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 128  |  Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
Table 2.1.2: Performance measures for Outcome 1 – Seacare Authority  
Table 2.1. 2 details the performance measures for each program associated with Outcome 1. 
It is used by entities to describe the results they plan to achieve and the related key 
activities, as detailed in the current corporate plan, the context in which these activit ies are 
delivered, and how the performance of these activities will be measured. 
Where  relevant,  details of the 2024 –25 Budget measures that have created new programs or 
materially changed existing programs are provided.  
Outcome 1 – Promote healthy and safe workplaces and appropriate and timely compensation for, 
and rehabilitation of, injured workers covered by the Seacare scheme and maintain a scheme 
safety net that is able to meet its liabilitie s. 
Key Activities  • Monitor the operation of the OHS(MI) Act and promote compliance  
• Proactively engage with the jurisdiction on safety issues, including activities 
undertaken against the Seacare Authority/Australian Maritime Safety Authority 
Occupational Health and Safety Plan  
• Promote better practice occupational health and safety through information and 
guidance and other agreed cost neutral initiatives  
• Drive improvement in return to work outcomes in the scheme through 
collaboration with health experts, providers and scheme stakeholders  
• Promote better practice claims management through provision of relevant 
information for employees and employers to improve decision making and 
dispute resolution  
• Educate scheme stakeholders to facilitate compliance with legislated reporting 
and payment obligations  
• Undertake a biennial (or more frequent if required) actuarial review of the Fund 
to determine an appropriate reserve target and levy rate  
• Monitor potential liabilities or other factors that may reduce the Fund and ensure 
appropriate actions are taken in a timely manner  
Year  Performance measures  Expected Performance Results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 The Seacare Authority promotes healthy 
and safe workplaces  Assessment – on track  
The Seacare  Authority promotes timely 
rehabilitation and compensation  Assessment – on track  
The Seacare Authority maintains a 
scheme safety net fund that is able to 
meet its liabilities  Assessment – on track  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 129 
Year  Performance measures  Planned  Performance Results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 The Seacare Authority promotes healthy 
and safe workplaces  
  1. Seacare  Members and scheme 
participants have reporting available 
on scheme OHS performance to 
allow for identification and review of 
trends and opportunities to promote 
health and safety  
2. Action taken in accordance with the 
OHS Plan and otherwise as required  
3. The Seacare Authority has policies 
and guidance which are adapted to 
health and safety needs of scheme 
participants  
The Seacare Authority promotes timely 
rehabilitation and compensation  1. Action is taken by the Seacare  
Authority to promote appropriate and 
timely rehabilitation and 
compensation activities  
2. Feedback indicates that scheme 
stakeholders are, on average, 
satisfied with the availability, 
currency and content of guidance on 
claims management  
3. Employer reporting obligations under 
the Seafarers Act and Levy 
Collection Act provided within 
required timeframes  
The Seacare Authority maintains a 
scheme safety net fund that is able to 
meet its liabilities  1. Target cash reserve and 
recommended levy rate reviewed 
and determined (as appropriate) at a 
quarterly meeting of the Seacare 
Authority  
2. Full and proper payment of levies 
and reporting of berths by employers 
as required by the Seafarers Act and 
Levy Collection Act  
3. Factors that may reduce the Fund 
are identified, monitored and 
appropriate action taken  
Forward Estimates  
2025 –28 As per 2024 –25 As per 2024 –25 
Material changes to Outcome 1 resulting from 2024 –25 Budget Measures: Nil  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 130  |  Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  
Section 3 presents budgeted financial statements which provide a comprehensive snapshot 
of entity finances for the 2024 –25 budget year, including the impact of budget measures 
and resourcing on financial statements.  
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  
3.1.1  Differences between entity resourcing and financial statements  
The difference between the available resources shown in Table 1.1: Comcare Resource 
Statement and Table 3.1: Comprehensive Income Statement is due to prior year amounts 
available in 2024 –25, and non -cash movements in the value of the workers’ compensation 
claims liability and notional interest receipts. The prior year amounts relate to retained 
premium funds, which are held to discharge future premium claims liabilities. 
Table  3.2: Budgeted Departmental Balance Sheet also includes significant financial asse ts 
(appropriations receivable) which will fund claim payments over the lifetime of the 
outstanding claims liabilities.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 131 
3.1.2  Explanatory notes and analysis of budgeted financial statements  
Income  
Comcare’s total income in 2024 –25 is $381.3  million, compared to $ 338.5  million  
in 2023 –24 (an increase of $ 42.8 million).  
Expenses  
Comcare’s total expenses in 2024 –25 is $381.3  million, compared to $ 338.5  million  
in 2023 –24 (a n increase of $ 42.8 million).  
Operating result  
Comcare has budgeted for a break -even operating result in 202 4–25. 
Cash  
Comcare’s cash and cash equivalents increased in 2024 –25 from $ 408.6  million 
to $422.5  million (by $ 13.9 million), as premium related income was higher than premium 
related expenses.   
Claims liability  
Comcare has three separate claims liabilities:  
• Premium workers’ compensation claims — these relate to workers’ compensation 
claims from premium -paying agencies with a date of injury on or after 1 July 1989.  
• Pre-premium workers’ compensation claims — these relate to workers’ compensation 
claims with a date of injury before 1 July 1989. It is expected that pre -premium claims 
liabilities will decrease over time as claims are settled.  
• Asbestos -related common law claims — these relate to asbestos -related claims where 
the Commonwealth has a liability.  
In the 2024 –25 Portfolio Budget Statements, all claims liability provisions are based on 
independent actuarial valuations on the basis of the central estimate plus a risk margin that 
would achieve a 75 per cent probability of sufficiency.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 132  |  Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
3.2 Budgeted financial statements tables  
Table 3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services) for 
the period ended 30  June  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
EXPENSES
Employee benefits 87,708 92,705 96,881 100,169 103,567 
Suppliers 43,645 42,371 38,708 34,840 32,641 
Depreciation and amortisation 10,917 11,629 11,629 11,629 11,609 
Finance costs 143 135 104 72 36 
Write-down and impairment of assets (56,087) (6,271) (16,284) (23,395) (31,792)
Claims payments 220,641 226,918 231,746 236,547 242,409 
Claims - movement in liabilities 31,495 13,782 11,906 16,271 22,019 
Total expenses 338,462 381,269 374,690 376,133 380,489 
LESS: 
OWN-SOURCE INCOME
Own-source revenue
Sale of goods and rendering of
  services 4,094 4,339 2,387 3,364 2,387 
Licence fees 22,169 28,240 29,367 29,019 29,481 
Regulatory contributions 22,634 28,769 29,917 29,562 30,033 
Interest 26,259 24,773 20,148 16,316 14,855 
Grants received from portfolio department 53,617 50,921 49,632 47,824 47,048 
Workers' compensation premiums 205,904 240,997 240,148 246,848 253,548 
Total own-source revenue 334,677 378,039 371,599 372,933 377,352 
Gains
Other receivables (2,244) (3,449) (3,161) (3,162) (3,301)
Total gains (2,244) (3,449) (3,161) (3,162) (3,301)
Total own-source income 332,433 374,590 368,438 369,771 374,051 
Net (cost of)/contribution by
  services (6,029) (6,679) (6,252) (6,362) (6,438)
Revenue from Government 6,029 6,679 6,252 6,362 6,438 
Surplus/(deficit) attributable to the
  Australian Government - - - - - Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 133 
Table  3.2: Budg eted departmental balance sheet (as at 30 June)  
 
Prepared on Australian  Accounting Standards basis.  
*Equity is the residual interest in assets after deduction of liabilities.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 408,591 422,533 423,680 422,254 418,080
Trade and other receivables 2,189,771 2,192,594 2,205,717 2,225,951 2,254,442
Other financial assets 12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000
Total financial assets    2,610,362    2,627,127    2,641,397    2,660,205    2,684,522 
Non-financial assets
Land and buildings 23,848 18,654 18,615 12,422 4,620
Property, plant and equipment 4,981 4,821 5,103 5,565 6,077
Intangibles 8,643 7,079 5,040 3,001 962
Other non-financial assets 1,238 1,238 1,238 1,238 1,238
Total non-financial assets         38,710         31,792         29,996         22,226         12,897 
Total assets     2,649,072     2,658,919     2,671,393     2,682,431     2,697,419 
LIABILITIES
Payables
Suppliers 5,758 5,758 5,757 5,757 5,757
Other payables 3,222 3,221 3,221 3,221 3,221
Total payables           8,980           8,979           8,978           8,978           8,978 
Interest bearing liabilities
Leases 20,839 16,905 17,474 12,241 5,210
Total interest bearing liabilities         20,839         16,905         17,474         12,241           5,210 
Provisions
Employee provisions 15,221 15,221 15,221 15,221 15,221
Other provisions 2,579,571 2,593,353 2,605,259 2,621,530 2,643,549
Total provisions    2,594,792    2,608,574    2,620,480    2,636,751    2,658,770 
Total liabilities     2,624,611     2,634,458     2,646,932     2,657,970     2,672,958 
Net assets          24,461          24,461          24,461          24,461          24,461 
EQUITY*
Parent entity interest
Contributed equity 7,717 7,717 7,717 7,717 7,717 
Reserves 9,275 9,275 9,275 9,275 9,275 
Retained surplus (accumulated
  deficit) 7,469 7,469 7,469 7,469 7,469 
Total parent entity interest 24,461 24,461 24,461 24,461 24,461 
Total equity 24,461 24,461 24,461 24,461 24,461   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 134  |  Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
Table 3.3: Departmental statement of changes in equity  – summary of  movement 
(Budget year 2024 –25)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis . 
  
Retained
earnings
$'000Asset
revaluation
reserve
$'000Other
reserves
$'000Contributed
equity/
capital
$'000Total
equity 
$'000
Opening balance as at 1 July 2024
Balance carried forward from
  previous period 7,469 9,275 - 7,717 24,461 
Adjusted opening balance 7,469 9,275 - 7,717 24,461 
Estimated closing balance as at
  30 June 2025 7,469 9,275 - 7,717 24,461 
Closing balance attributable to
  the Australian Government 7,469 9,275 - 7,717 24,461 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 135 
Table 3.4: Budgeted depar tmental statement of cash flows (for the period ended  
30 June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.   
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Appropriations 6,029 6,679 6,252 6,362 6,438 
Receipts from Government 53,617 50,921 49,632 47,824 47,048 
Sale of goods and rendering of
  services 48,896 61,348 61,671 61,945 61,901 
Interest 26,259 24,773 20,148 16,316 14,855 
GST receipt from customers 16,133 16,239 16,239 16,239 16,239 
Workers' compensation premiums 205,904 240,997 240,148 246,847 253,548 
Total cash received 356,838 400,957 394,090 395,533 400,029 
Cash used
Employees 87,708 92,705 96,881 100,169 103,567 
Suppliers 43,648 42,372 38,709 34,840 32,641 
GST payment to suppliers 6,716 6,592 6,592 6,592 6,592 
Net GST paid 9,417 9,647 9,647 9,647 9,647 
Interest payments on lease liability 143 135 104 72 36 
Claims Payments 220,639 226,919 231,746 236,547 242,409 
Other 5,284 - - - - 
Total cash used 373,555 378,370 383,679 387,867 394,892 
Net cash from/(used by)
  operating activities (16,717) 22,587 10,411 7,666 5,137 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Cash used
Purchase of property, plant and
  equipment and intangibles 4,212 2,230 2,550 2,230 2,280 
Total cash used 4,212 2,230 2,550 2,230 2,280 
Net cash from/(used by)
  investing activities (4,212) (2,230) (2,550) (2,230) (2,280)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Cash used
Principal payments on lease liability 5,758 6,415 6,714 6,862 7,031 
Total cash used 5,758 6,415 6,714 6,862 7,031 
Net cash from/(used by)
  financing activities (5,758) (6,415) (6,714) (6,862) (7,031)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
  held (26,687) 13,942 1,147 (1,426) (4,174)
Cash and cash equivalents at the
  beginning of the reporting period 435,278 408,591 422,533 423,680 422,254 
Cash and cash equivalents at
  the end of the reporting period 408,591 422,533 423,680 422,254 418,080   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 136  |  Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
Table 3.5: Departmental capital budget statement (for the period ended 30 June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
PURCHASE OF NON-FINANCIAL
  ASSETS
Funded internally from departmental
  resources 4,212 2,230 2,550 2,230 2,280 
TOTAL 4,212 2,230 2,550 2,230 2,280 
RECONCILIATION OF CASH USED
  TO ACQUIRE ASSETS TO ASSET
  MOVEMENT TABLE
Total purchases 5,178 4,711 9,833 3,859 2,280 
less: ROU Additions (966) (2,481) (7,283) (1,629) - 
Total cash used to acquire assets 4,212 2,230 2,550 2,230 2,280 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 137 
Table  3.6: Statement of departmental asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
Buildings
$'000Other
property,
plant and
equipment
$'000Computer
software and
intangibles
$'000Total
$'000
As at 1 July 2024
Gross book value 26,118 13,140 27,111 66,369 
Gross book value - ROU assets 39,188 353 - 39,541 
Accumulated depreciation/
amortisation and impairment (21,837) (8,178) (18,468) (48,483)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation and 
impairment - ROU assets (19,621) (334) - (19,955)
Opening net book balance 23,848 4,981 8,643 37,472 
Capital asset additions
Estimated expenditure on new
  or replacement assets
By purchase - other 500 930 800 2,230 
By purchase - other - ROU assets 2,128 353 - 2,481 
Total additions 2,628 1,283 800 4,711 
Other movements
Depreciation/amortisation expense (1,521) (1,377) (2,364) (5,262)
Depreciation/amortisation on 
 ROU assets (6,301) (66) - (6,367)
Disposals
  ROU assets - Gross book value (1,745) (333) - (2,078)
  ROU assets - Accumulated amortisation 1,745 333 - 2,078 
Total other movements (7,822) (1,443) (2,364) (11,629)
As at 30 June 2025
Gross book value 26,618 14,070 27,911 68,599 
Gross book value - ROU assets 39,571 373 - 39,944 
Accumulated depreciation/
  amortisation and impairment (23,358) (9,555) (20,832) (53,745)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation and 
impairment - ROU assets (24,177) (67) - (24,244)
Closing net book balance 18,654 4,821 7,079 30,554   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 138  |  Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
Table 3.7: Schedule of budgeted income and expenses administered on behalf of 
Government (for the period ended 30  June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
EXPENSES
Suppliers - 29 - 32 - 
Total expenses administered on
  behalf of Government - 29 - 32 - 
LESS:
OWN-SOURCE INCOME
Non-taxation revenue
Other revenue 84 13 12 12 12 
Total non-taxation revenue 84 13 12 12 12 
Total own-source revenue
  administered on behalf of
  Government 84 13 12 12 12 
Net (cost of)/contribution by
  services 84 (16) 12 (20) 12 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 139 
Table  3.8: Schedule of budgeted assets and liabilities administered o n behalf of 
Government (as at 30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
ASSETS 
Financial assets
Cash held in the Official Public Account
 - special accounts 2,584 2,568 2,580 2,560 2,572 
Trade and other receivables 2,061 1,907 1,750 1,591 1,428 
Total financial assets 4,645 4,475 4,330 4,151 4,000 
Total assets administered on
  behalf of Government 4,645 4,475 4,330 4,151 4,000 
LIABILITIES
Payables
Workers' compensation claims payables 2,061 1,907 1,750 1,591 1,428 
Total payables 2,061 1,907 1,750 1,591 1,428 
Provisions
Workers' compensation claims provisions 322 322 322 322 322 
Total provisions 322 322 322 322 322 
Total liabilities administered on
  behalf of Government 2,383 2,229 2,072 1,913 1,750 
Net assets/(liabilities) 2,262 2,246 2,258 2,238 2,250   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 140  |  Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
Table 3.9: Schedule of budgeted administered cash flows (for the period ended 
30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Appropriation from the OPA 900 - - - - 
Net GST received 3 3 - 3 - 
Other 224 167 169 171 175 
Total cash received 1,127 170 169 174 175 
Cash used
Suppliers - 29 - 32 - 
Net GST paid - 3 - 3 - 
Other 150 154 157 159 163 
Total cash used 150 186 157 194 163 
Net cash from/(used by)
  operating activities 977 (16) 12 (20) 12 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
  held 977 (16) 12 (20) 12 
Cash from Official Public Account for:
- Special accounts 150 186 157 194 163 
Total cash from Official Public Account 150 186 157 194 163 
Cash to Official Public Account for:
- Special accounts 1,127 170 169 174 175 
Total cash to Official Public Account 1,127 170 169 174 175 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Comcare and the Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority   |  Page 141 
Table 3.10: Schedule of administered capital budget statement (for the period 
ended 30 June)  
Comcare has no administered capital budget therefore Table 3.10 is not presented.  
Table 3.11 Statement of administered asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
Comcare has no administered assets therefore Table 3.11 is not presented.  
  
 Fair Work Commission  
 
Entity resources and planned 
performance   
Fair Work Commission   |  Page 145 Fair Work Commission  
Section 1: Entity overview and resources  ................................ ..............................  147 
1.1 Strategic direction statement  ................................ ................................ ....................  147 
1.2 Entity resource statement ................................ ................................ .........................  149 
1.3 Budget measures  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 151 
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  ................................ ...................  152 
2.1  Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1  ................................ ..............  153 
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ..............................  157 
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ................................ .................  157 
3.2 Budgeted financial statements tables  ................................ ................................ ....... 158 
  
Fair Work Commission   |  Page 147 Fair Work Commission  
Section 1: Entity overview and reso urces  
1.1 Strategic direction statement  
The Fair Work Commission (the Commission) is the independent national workplace 
relations tribunal  and registered organisations regulator  established by the Fair Work Act 
2009  (Fair Work Act). The Commission is responsible for administering provisions of the 
Fair Work Act  and the registration, recognition and accountability of registered 
organisations under the Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act 2009  (Registered 
Organisations Act).  
The Commission consists of a President, Vice Presidents, Deputy Presidents, 
Commissioners and  Expert Panel Members, supported by the General Manager and highly 
skilled staff.  
The Commission exercises its functions and powers in accordance with the Fair Work Act. 
These functions and powers include:  
• deal ing with unfair dismissal claims  
• dealing with claims to stop bullying at work  and sexual harassment disputes in 
connection with work  
• dealing with general protections and unlawful termination claims  
• dealing with unlawful deactivation disputes and unfair termination disputes  
• setting the national minimum wage and minimum wage wages in modern awards  
• making minimum standards orders and guidelines for employee -like workers and 
regulated road transport industry contractors  
• making road transport contractual chain orders and guidelines  
• making labour hire arrangement orders  
• making, reviewing and varying modern awards  
• assisting the bargaining process for enterprise agreements  
• approving, varying and terminating enterprise agreements  
• making orders for equal remuneration  
• making orders to stop or suspend industrial action  
• dealing with disputes brought under dispute resolution procedures in modern awards 
and enterprise agreements  
• dealing with right to disconnect disputes  
• dealing with unfair contract terms    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 148  |  Fair Work Commission  
• determining entry permits  
• promoting cooperative and productive workplace relations and preventing disputes.  
The Commission is the independent regulator of registered organisations with functions 
under the Registered Organisations Act. These functions include : 
• registration, amalgamation and cancellation or registered organisations  
• promoting the efficient management of registered organisations  
• conducting inquiries and investigations about registered organisation finances and 
financial administration  
• making and altering organisations’ rules.  
The Commission is responsible for delivering a single planned outcome: ‘Simple, fair and 
flexible workplace relations for employees and employers through the exercise of powers 
to set and vary minimum wages and modern awards, facilitate collective  bargaining, 
approve agreements , deal with disputes and promote the financial transparency and 
effective governance of registered employee and employer organisations.’  
To achieve this outcome , the Commission’s major priorities in 2024 –25 include ensuring the 
Commission is:  
• transparent and accountable to the public  
• supported by a skilled, capable and committed workforce  
• maintaining high performance by embracing innovation and digital transformation  
• accessible for all Australians by supporting simple, fair and flexible workplace relations  
• progressing  major cases that affect pay and conditions across the national economy or 
that are likely to be a significant interest to the public  
• effective in supporting registered organisations to voluntarily comply with their 
obligations under the Registered Organisations Act and foster cultures of good 
governance and financial reporting and accountability.  
Further information about the activities of the Commission can be found at the 
Commission’s website, www.fwc.gov.au , and in the Commission’s Corporate Plan, 
www.fwc.gov.au/about -us/reporting -and-publications . 
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Fair Work Commission   |  Page 149 
1.2 Entity resource statement  
Table 1.1 shows the total resourcing from all sources available to the Fair Work 
Commission for its operations and to deliver programs and services on behalf of the 
Government.  
The table summarises how resources will be applied by outcome (government strategic 
policy objectives) and by administered (on behalf of the Government or the public) and 
departmental (for the entity’s operations) classification.  
For more detailed information on special accounts and special appropriations, please refer 
to the Budget Paper No. 4 – Agency Resourcing .  
Information in this table is presented on a resourcing (that is, appropriations/cash 
available) basis, whilst the ‘Budgeted expenses by Outcome 1’ tables in Section 2 and the 
financial statements in Section 3 are presented on an accrual basis. Amounts pres ented 
below are consistent with amounts presented in the Appropriation Bills themselves.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 150  |  Fair Work Commission  
Table 1.1: Fair Work Commission r esource statement  – Budget estimates for 
2024 –25 as at Budget May 2024  
 
Prepared on a resourcing (i.e. appropriations available) basis.  
All figures shown above are GST exclusive - these may not match figures in the cash flow statement.  
(a) Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 2024 –2025.  
(b) Excludes departmental capital bu dget (DCB).  
(c) Estimated External Revenue receipts under section 74  (s74)  of the Public Governance, Performance 
and Accountability Act 2013  (PGPA Act).  
(d) Capital budgets are not separately identified in Appropriation Bill (No.1) and form part of ordinary annual 
services items. Please refer to Table 3.5 for further details on capital budgets. For accounting purposes, 
capital budget appropriations have been designated as a 'contribution by owner'.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25 
Estimate
$'000
Departmental
Annual appropriations - ordinary annual services (a)
    Prior year appropriations available 37,020 39,677 
    Departmental appropriation (b) 104,775 111,036 
    s74 External Revenue (c) 212 210 
    Departmental capital budget (d) 850 8,451 
Total departmental annual appropriations 142,857 159,374 
Total departmental resourcing 142,857 159,374 
Administered
Special appropriations
    Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013  - s77 500 500 
Total administered resourcing 500 500 
Total resourcing for Fair Work Commission 143,357 159,874 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 402 417 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Fair Work Commission   |  Page 151 
1.3 Budget measures  
Budget measures in Part 1 relating to  the Commission  are detailed in the Budget Paper 
No. 2 and are summarised below.  
Table 1.2: Fair Work Commission 2024 –25 Budget measures  
Part 1: Measures announced since  the 2023 –24 Mid -Year Economic and Fiscal 
Outlook (MYEFO)  
 
Prepared on a Government Finance Statistics (Underlying Cash) basis. Figures displayed as a negative ( -) 
represent a decrease in funds and a positive (+) represent an increase in funds.  
(a) The lead entity for measure titled Net Zero Economy is the Department of the Prime Minister and 
Cabinet. The full measure description and package details appear in Budget Paper No. 2 under the 
Prime Minister and Cabinet portfolio.  
(b) This is a Whole of Government savings measure. The full measure description and package details 
appear in Budget Paper No. 2 under Cross Portfolio.   
Program2023-24
$'0002024-25
$'0002025-26
$'0002026-27
$'0002027-28
$'000
Payment measures
Net Zero Economy (a) 1.1            
Departmental payment  -           513           520           528           534 
Total  -           513           520           528           534 
Saving from External
  Labour - extension (b)1.1            
Departmental payment  -          (188)          (203)          (211)       (1,646)
Total  -          (188)          (203)          (211)       (1,646)
Total payment measures
Departmental  -           325           317           317       (1,112)
Total  -           325           317           317       (1,112)  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 152  |  Fair Work Commission  
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by the 
Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the primary 
vehicle by which government entities achieve the intended results of their outcome 
statements. Entities are required to identify the programs which contribute to government 
outcomes over the Budget and forwa rd years.  
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs. 
The following  provides detailed information on expenses for each outcome and program, 
further broken down by funding source.  
Note:  
Performance reporting requirements in the Portfolio Budget Statements are part of the 
Commonwealth performance framework established by the Public Governance, Performance 
and Accountability Act 2013 . It is anticipated that the performance measure described in 
Portfolio Budget Statements will be read with broader information provided in an entity ’s 
corporate plans and annual performance statements – included in Annual Reports  – to 
provide a complete picture of an entity ’s planned and actual performance.  
The most recent corporate plan for  the Commission  can be found at: 
https://www.fwc.gov.au/about -us/reporting -and-publications . 
The most recent annual performance statement can be found at:  
https://www.transparency.gov.au/publications . 
 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Fair Work Commission   |  Page 153 
2.1  Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1 
Outcome 1: Simple, fair  and flexible workplace relations for employees and employers through the  
exercise of powers to set and vary minimum wages and modern awards, facilitate collective  
bargaining, approve agreements, deal with disputes, and promote the financial transparency and  
effective governance of registered employee and employer organisations.  
 
Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 
This table shows how much the entity intends to spend (on an accrual basis) on achieving 
the outcome, broken down by program, as well as by Administered an d Departmental 
funding sources.  
Table 2. 1.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 
 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Administered expenses
Special Appropriation
Public Governance, Performance and
  Accountability Act 2013  - s77 100 100 100 100 100 
Administered total 100 100 100 100 100 
Departmental expenses
Departmental appropriation 95,782 101,621 101,579 102,601 106,531 
s74 External Revenue (a) 212 210 210 50 50 
Expenses not requiring
  appropriation in the Budget
  year (b) 14,240 14,025 13,995 13,992 13,067 
Departmental total 110,234 115,856 115,784 116,643 119,648 
Total expenses for program 1.1 110,334 115,956 115,884 116,743 119,748 Outcome 1: Simple, fair and flexible workplace relations for employees and employers through the 
exercise of powers to set and vary minimum wages and modern awards, facilitate collective bargaining, 
approve agreements, deal with disputes, and promote the financial transparency and effective 
governance of registered employee and employer organisations.
Program 1.1: Dispute resolution, minimum wages and conditions, orders, approvals of agreements, and 
promoting effective governance of registered organisations.  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 154  |  Fair Work Commission  
Table 2. 1.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 (continued)  
 
Note: Departmental appropriation splits and totals are indicative estimates and may change in the course of 
the budget year as government priorities change . 
(a) Estimated expenses incurred in relation to receipts retained under section 74 of the PGPA Act.  
(b) Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year are made up of depreciation expenses, 
amortisation expenses, and free of charges such as audit fees.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Administered expenses
Special Appropriation
Public Governance, Performance and
  Accountability Act 2013  - s77 100 100 100 100 100 
Administered total 100 100 100 100 100 
Departmental expenses
Departmental appropriation 95,782 101,621 101,579 102,601 106,531 
s74 External Revenue (a) 212 210 210 50 50 
Expenses not requiring
  appropriation in the Budget
  year (b) 14,240 14,025 13,995 13,992 13,067 
Departmental total 110,234 115,856 115,784 116,643 119,648 
Total expenses for Outcome 1 110,334 115,956 115,884 116,743 119,748 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 402 417 Outcome 1 Totals by appropriation typeOutcome 1: Simple, fair and flexible workplace relations for employees and employers through the 
exercise of powers to set and vary minimum wages and modern awards, facilitate collective bargaining, 
approve agreements, deal with disputes, and promote the financial transparency and effective 
governance of registered employee and employer organisations.Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Fair Work Commission   |  Page 155 
Table 2. 1.2: Performance measures  for Outcome 1 
Table 2. 1.2 details the performance measures for each program associated with Outcome 1. 
It is used by entities to describe the results they plan to achieve and the related key 
activities , as detailed in the current corporate plan , the context in which these activities are 
delivered , and how the performance of these activities will be measured. 
Where  relevant,  details of the 2024–25 Budget measures that have created new programs or 
materially changed existing programs are provided.   
Outcome 1  – Simple, fair and flexible workplace relations for employees and employers through the  
exercise of powers to set and vary minimum wages and modern awards, facilitate collective  
bargaining, approve agreements, deal with disputes, and promote the financial transparency and  
effective governance of registered employee and employer organisations.  
Program 1.1 – Dispute resolution, minimum wages and conditions, orders, approvals of 
agreements, and promoting effective governance of registered organisations.  
 
Exercising powers under the Fair Work Act 2009 in a manner that is fair and just, is quick, informal and  
avoids unnecessary technicalities.  
Exercising powers under the Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act 2009 in a manner that seeks to  
embed within organisations a culture of good governance, voluntary compliance with the law and high  
standards of accountability to their members.  
Key Activities (a)  Key activities reported in the current corporate plan that relate to this program:  
• Set and vary minimum wages and modern awards  
• Facilitate collective bargaining  
• Approve agreements  
• Deal with disputes  
• Promote the financial transparency and effective governance of registered 
organisations  
Year  Performance measures  Expected Performance Results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 (b)  Annual wage review to be completed to 
enable an operative date of 1 July  Target: Publication by 30 June  
On track  
Timely finalisation of matters   Target: 50% finalised within 8 weeks   
Target: 90% finalised within 16 weeks   
On track   
Timely approval of enterprise 
agreements approved without 
undertakings or amendments   Target: 50% approved within 32 days    
On track   
Timely finalisation of lodgments to 
arrange registered organisations 
elections   Target: 50% finalised within 4 weeks   
Target: 90% finalised within 8 weeks   
On track   
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 156  |  Fair Work Commission  
Year  Performance measures  Planned Performance Results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 As per 2023 –24  As per 2023 –24  
Forward Estimates  
2025 –28 As per 2024 –25  As per 2024 –25  
Material changes to Program 1.1 resulting from 2024 –25 Budget Measures: Nil  
(a) Changes to key activities that were introduced in the Fair Work Commission Corporate Plan 2023 –24 are 
shown in italics. Key activities are currently under review to enable incorporation of new functions and 
powers from the Fair Work Legislation Amendment (Closing Loopholes) Act 2023  
and Fair Work  Legislation Amendment (Closing Loopholes No. 2) Act 2024 . Changes to key activities will 
be set out in the Fair Work Commission Corporate Plan 2024 –25.  
(b) New and modified performance measures for Budget Year 2023 –24 that were introduced in the 
Fair Work Commission Corporate Plan 2023 –24 are shown in italics.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Fair Work Commission   |  Page 157 
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  
Section 3 presents budgeted financial statements which provide a comprehensive snapshot 
of entity finances for the 2024 –25 budget year, including the impact of budget measures 
and resourcing on financial statements.  
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  
3.1.1  Differences between entity resourcing and financial statements  
The Commission has no material differences between the entity resourcing and financial 
statements.  
3.1.2  Explanatory notes and analysis of budgeted financial statements  
The Commission is budgeting for an operating loss of $4. 5 million for the 202 4–25 financial 
year. This figure is equal to the unappropriated depreciation and amortisation expenses 
less the principal repayments on leased assets.  
Total revenues are estimated to be $111.3 million and total expenses $1 15.8 million  
in 202 4–25.  
Total assets at the end of the 202 4–25 year are estimated to be $ 99.5 million. The majority of 
the assets represent receivables (appropriation receivables), property leased assets and 
property fit outs.  
Total liabilities for 202 4–25 are estimated at $ 57.9 million. The largest liability items are 
property lease liabilities and accrued employee entitlements.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 158  |  Fair Work Commission  
3.2 Budgeted financial statements tables  
Table  3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services)  for 
the period ended 30  June  
 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
EXPENSES
Employee benefits 64,963 70,513 71,360 71,673 73,674 
Suppliers 30,213 30,606 29,682 30,176 30,515 
Depreciation and amortisation (a) 14,183 13,968 13,938 13,935 13,010 
Finance costs 875 769 804 859 2,449 
Total expenses 110,234 115,856 115,784 116,643 119,648 
LESS: 
OWN-SOURCE INCOME
Own-source revenue
Rental income 162 160 160 - - 
Other 107 107 107 107 107 
Total own-source revenue 269 267 267 107 107 
Total own-source income 269 267 267 107 107 
Net (cost of)/contribution by
  services (109,965) (115,589) (115,517) (116,536) (119,541)
Revenue from Government 104,775 111,036 111,301 112,646 114,060 
Surplus/(deficit) attributable to the
  Australian Government (5,190) (4,553) (4,216) (3,890) (5,481)
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Changes in asset revaluation surplus - - - - - 
Total other comprehensive income - - - - - 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) (5,190) (4,553) (4,216) (3,890) (5,481)
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
  attributable to the Australian
  Government (5,190) (4,553) (4,216) (3,890) (5,481)Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Fair Work Commission   |  Page 159 
Table  3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services)  for 
the period ended 30  June (continued)  
Note: Impact of net cash appropriation arrangements  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) From 2010 –11, the Government introduced net cash appropriation arrangements where Bill 1 revenue 
appropriations for the depreciation/amortisation expenses of non -corporate Commonwealth entities 
(and select corporate Commonwealth entities) were replaced with a separate capit al budget 
(the Departmental Capital Budget, or DCB) provided through Bill 1 equity appropriations. 
For information  regarding DCBs, please refer to Table 3.5 Departmental Capital Budget Statement.  
(b) Applies to leases under AASB 16 Leases.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
  - as per statement of
  Comprehensive Income (5,190) (4,553) (4,216) (3,890) (5,481)
plus: depreciation/amortisation of assets
  funded through appropriations
  (departmental capital budget funding
  and/or equity injections) (a) 5,221 5,008 5,008 4,940 5,065 
plus: depreciation/amortisation
  expenses for ROU assets (b) 8,962 8,960 8,930 8,995 7,945 
less: lease principal repayments (b) 8,993 9,415 9,722 10,045 7,529 
Net Cash Operating Surplus/ (Deficit) - - - - -   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 160  |  Fair Work Commission  
Table  3.2: Budg eted departmental balance sheet (as at 30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
*Equity is the residual interest in assets after the deduction of liabilities.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 409 409 409 409 409
Trade and other receivables 38,343 38,343 38,343 38,343 38,343
Total financial assets       38,752       38,752       38,752       38,752       38,752 
Non-financial assets
Land and buildings 53,893 48,278 40,550 36,548 60,774
Property, plant and equipment 7,702 8,771 9,032 8,962 8,834
Intangibles 1,863 2,366 2,112 2,020 2,021
Other non-financial assets 1,294 1,294 1,294 1,294 1,294
Total non-financial assets       64,752       60,709       52,988       48,824       72,923 
Total assets      103,504        99,461        91,740        87,576      111,675 
LIABILITIES
Payables
Suppliers 1,580 1,580 1,580 1,580 1,580
Other payables 1,499 1,499 1,499 1,499 1,499
Total payables         3,079         3,079         3,079         3,079         3,079 
Interest bearing liabilities
Leases 45,703 37,762 31,306 28,038 54,589
Total interest bearing liabilities       45,703       37,762       31,306       28,038       54,589 
Provisions
Employee provisions 17,066 17,066 17,066 17,066 17,066
Total provisions       17,066       17,066       17,066       17,066       17,066 
Total liabilities        65,848        57,907        51,451        48,183        74,734 
Net assets        37,656        41,554        40,289        39,393        36,941 
EQUITY*
Contributed equity 60,883 69,334 72,285 75,279 78,308 
Reserves 19,676 19,676 19,676 19,676 19,676 
Retained surplus (accumulated
  deficit) (42,903) (47,456) (51,672) (55,562) (61,043)
Total equity 37,656 41,554 40,289 39,393 36,941 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Fair Work Commission   |  Page 161 
Table 3.3: Departmental statement of changes in equity – summary of movement 
(Budget year 2024 –25)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
Retained
earnings
$'000Asset
revaluation
reserve
$'000Other
reserves
$'000Contributed
equity/
capital
$'000Total
equity 
$'000
Opening balance as at 1 July 2024
Balance carried forward from
  previous period (42,903) 19,676 - 60,883 37,656 
Adjusted opening balance (42,903) 19,676 - 60,883 37,656 
Comprehensive income
Surplus/(deficit) for the period (4,553) - - - (4,553)
Total comprehensive income (4,553) - - - (4,553)
Contributions by owners
Departmental Capital Budget (DCB) - - - 8,451 8,451 
Sub-total transactions with
  owners - - - 8,451 8,451 
Estimated closing balance as at
  30 June 2025 (47,456) 19,676 - 69,334 41,554 
Closing balance attributable to
  the Australian Government (47,456) 19,676 - 69,334 41,554   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 162  |  Fair Work Commission  
Table 3.4: Budgeted depar tmental statement of cash flows (for the period ended  
30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Appropriations 108,047 111,036 111,301 112,646 114,060 
Sale of goods and rendering of
  services 162 160 160 - - 
Other 50 50 50 50 50 
Total cash received 108,259 111,246 111,511 112,696 114,110 
Cash used
Employees 64,963 70,513 71,360 71,673 73,674 
Suppliers 30,156 30,549 29,625 30,119 30,458 
Interest payments on lease liability 875 769 804 859 2,449 
Total cash used 95,994 101,831 101,789 102,651 106,581 
Net cash from/(used by)
  operating activities 12,265 9,415 9,722 10,045 7,529 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Cash used
Purchase of property, plant and
  equipment and intangibles 4,122 8,451 2,951 2,994 3,029 
Total cash used 4,122 8,451 2,951 2,994 3,029 
Net cash from/(used by)
  investing activities (4,122) (8,451) (2,951) (2,994) (3,029)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Contributed equity 850 8,451 2,951 2,994 3,029 
Total cash received 850 8,451 2,951 2,994 3,029 
Cash used
Principal payments on lease liability 8,993 9,415 9,722 10,045 7,529 
Total cash used 8,993 9,415 9,722 10,045 7,529 
Net cash from/(used by)
  financing activities (8,143) (964) (6,771) (7,051) (4,500)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
  held - - - - - 
Cash and cash equivalents at the
  beginning of the reporting period 409 409 409 409 409 
Cash and cash equivalents at
  the end of the reporting period 409 409 409 409 409 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Fair Work Commission   |  Page 163 
Table  3.5: Departmental capital budget statement (for the period ended 30 June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Includes purchases from current and previous years' DCBs.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
NEW CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS
Capital budget - Bill 1 (DCB) 850 8,451 2,951 2,994 3,029 
Total new capital appropriations 850 8,451 2,951 2,994 3,029 
Provided for:
Purchase of non-financial assets 850 8,451 2,951 2,994 3,029 
Total items 850 8,451 2,951 2,994 3,029 
PURCHASE OF NON-FINANCIAL
  ASSETS
Funded by capital appropriation -
  DCB (a) 4,122 8,451 2,951 2,994 3,029 
TOTAL 4,122 8,451 2,951 2,994 3,029 
RECONCILIATION OF CASH USED
  TO ACQUIRE ASSETS TO ASSET
  MOVEMENT TABLE
Total purchases 4,122 8,451 2,951 2,994 3,029 
Total cash used to acquire assets 4,122 8,451 2,951 2,994 3,029   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 164  |  Fair Work Commission  
Table  3.6: Statement of departmental asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) ‘Appropriation ordinary annual services’ refers to funding provided through  
Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 2024 –2025 for depreciation/amortisation expenses, DCBs or other operational 
expenses.  
  
Buildings
$'000Other
property,
plant and
equipment
$'000Computer
software and
intangibles
$'000Total
$'000
As at 1 July 2024
Gross book value 16,855 8,696 5,428 30,979 
Gross book value - ROU assets 92,970 286 - 93,256 
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation
  and impairment (2,909) (1,075) (3,565) (7,549)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation
  and impairment - ROU assets (53,023) (205) - (53,228)
Opening net book balance 53,893 7,702 1,863 63,458 
Capital asset additions
Estimated expenditure on new
  or replacement assets
By purchase - appropriation
  ordinary annual services (a) 4,723 2,128 1,600 8,451 
By purchase - appropriation ordinary
  annual services - ROU assets 1,474 - - 1,474 
Total additions 6,197 2,128 1,600 9,925 
Other movements
Depreciation/amortisation expense (2,909) (1,002) (1,097) (5,008)
Depreciation/amortisation on 
 ROU assets (8,903) (57) - (8,960)
Total other movements (11,812) (1,059) (1,097) (13,968)
As at 30 June 2025
Gross book value 21,578 10,824 7,028 39,430 
Gross book value - ROU assets 94,444 286 - 94,730 
Accumulated depreciation/
  amortisation and impairment (5,818) (2,077) (4,662) (12,557)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation and 
impairment - ROU assets (61,926) (262) - (62,188)
Closing net book balance 48,278 8,771 2,366 59,415 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Fair Work Commission   |  Page 165 
Table  3.7: Schedule of budgeted income and expenses administered on behalf of 
Government (for the period ended 30  June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
EXPENSES
Other expenses 100 100 100 100 100 
Total expenses administered on
  behalf of Government 100 100 100 100 100 
LESS:
OWN-SOURCE INCOME
Own-source revenue
Non-taxation revenue
Other revenue 678 678 678 678 678 
Total non-taxation revenue 678 678 678 678 678 
Total own-source revenue
  administered on behalf of
  Government 678 678 678 678 678 
Total own-sourced income
  administered on behalf of
  Government 678 678 678 678 678 
Net (cost of)/contribution by
  services 578 578 578 578 578 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 578 578 578 578 578   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 166  |  Fair Work Commission  
Table  3.8: Schedule of budgeted assets and liabilities administered o n behalf of 
Government (as at 30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis . 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
ASSETS 
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 5 5 5 5 5 
Total financial assets 5 5 5 5 5 
Total assets administered on
  behalf of Government 5 5 5 5 5 
LIABILITIES
Payables
Other payables 485 485 485 485 485 
Total payables 485 485 485 485 485 
Total liabilities administered on
  behalf of Government 485 485 485 485 485 
Net assets/(liabilities) (480) (480) (480) (480) (480)Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Fair Work Commission   |  Page 167 
Table 3.9: Schedule of budgeted administered cash flows (for the period ended 
30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Other 1,078 1,078 1,078 1,078 1,078 
Total cash received 1,078 1,078 1,078 1,078 1,078 
Cash used
Other 500 500 500 500 500 
Total cash used 500 500 500 500 500 
Net cash from/(used by)
  operating activities 578 578 578 578 578 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
  held 578 578 578 578 578 
Cash and cash equivalents at
  beginning of reporting period 5 5 5 5 5 
Cash from Official Public Account for:
- Appropriations 500 500 500 500 500 
Total cash from Official Public Account 500 500 500 500 500 
Cash to Official Public Account for:
- Appropriations (1,078) (1,078) (1,078) (1,078) (1,078)
Total cash to Official Public Account (1,078) (1,078) (1,078) (1,078) (1,078)
Cash and cash equivalents at
  end of reporting period 5 5 5 5 5   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 168  |  Fair Work Commission  
Table 3.10: Schedule of administered capital budget statement (for the period 
ended 30 June)   
The Commission has no administered capital budget therefore Table 3.10 is not presented.  
Table 3.1 1: Statement of administered asset movements ( Budget year 2024 –25) 
The Commission has no administered assets therefore Table 3.11 is not presented.  
  
 Office of the Fair Work 
Ombudsman  
 
Entity resources and planned 
performance   
Office of the  Fair Work Ombudsman   |  Page 171 Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
Section 1: Entity overview and resources  ................................ ..............................  173 
1.1 Strategic direction statement  ................................ ................................ ....................  173 
1.2 Entity resource statement ................................ ................................ .........................  175 
1.3 Budget measures  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 177 
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  ................................ ...................  178 
2.1  Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1  ................................ ..............  179 
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ..............................  183 
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ................................ .................  183 
3.2 Budgeted financial statements tables  ................................ ................................ ....... 184 
  
Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman   |  Page 173 Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
Section 1: Entity overview and reso urces  
1.1 Strategic direction statement  
The Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman (OFWO) is an independent statutory office 
created by the Fair Work Act 2009  (Fair Work Act) on 1 July 2009.  
The OFWO is responsible for the delivery of the outcome, ‘compliance with workplace 
relations legislation through advice, education and where necessary enforcement’. 
Our functions include:  
• promot ing harmonious, productive and cooperative workplace relations  
• promot ing and monitor ing compliance with Australian workplace laws  
• provid ing education, assistance and advice to employers, employees, outworkers, 
outworker entities and organisations  
• inquir ing into and investigat ing breaches of the Fair Work Act or a fair work 
instrument, and  
• taking appropriate enforcement action, including by commencing court proceedings.  
The OFWO operates in an ever -changing environment both in the context of evolving 
workplace relations legislation and the changing nature and needs of the community.   
From 1 January 2025 , a criminal offence (Offence) for intentional underpayments of 
entitlements, including superannuation  will be introduced . The OFWO will be primarily 
responsible for investigating contraventions of the new Offence and referring matters to the 
Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions  or the Australian Federal Police for 
consideration and potential prosecution.   
The criminal investigative function will be complementary to the Agency’s existing use of 
civil enforcement powers, noting that referral of matters for potential prosecution will be 
reserved for the most serious, intentional non -compliance.   
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 174  |  Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
In 2024 –25, OFWO will focus on:  
• building trust and awareness, working with the community to improve awareness of 
the services of the OFWO  
• providing information, education and advice to employees and employers on 
workplace rights and obligations  
• working with employers and employees and their representatives to resolve workplace 
disputes and remediate non -compliance with workplace laws  
• taking a risk based and proportionate response to compliance and enforcement 
activities, including undertaking proactive activities  guided by our regulatory priorities.  
For more information on the corporate activities for the coming year, please refer to 
OFWO’s 2024 –25 Corporate Plan , which  will set out the detail of strategic objectives, 
implementation strategies and performance information.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Office of the  Fair Work Ombudsman   |  Page 175 
1.2 Entity resource statement  
Table 1.1 shows the total resourcing from all sources available to the Office of the Fair Work 
Ombudsman for its operations and to deliver programs and services on behalf of the 
Government.  
The table summarises how resources will be applied by outcome (government strategic 
policy objectives) and by administered (on behalf of the Government or the public) and 
departmental (for the entity’s operations) classification.  
For more detailed information on special appropriations, please refer to the Budget Paper 
No. 4 – Agency Resourcing .  
Information in this table is presented on a resourcing (that is, appropriations/cash 
available) basis, whilst the ‘Budgeted expenses by Outcome 1’ tables in Section 2 and the 
financial statements in Section 3 are presented on an accrual basis. Amounts pres ented 
below are consistent with amounts presented in the Appropriation Bills themselves.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 176  |  Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
Table 1.1: Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman resource statement – Budget 
estimates for 2024 –25 as at Budget May 2024  
 
Prepared on a resourcing (that is, appropriations available) basis.  
All figures shown above are GST exclusive – these may not match figures in the cash flow statement.  
(a) Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 2024 –2025.  
(b) Excludes $12.128  million  subject to administrative quarantine by Finance or withheld  
under section 51  (s51)  of the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 (PGPA Act).  
(c) Excludes departmental capital budget (DCB).  
(d) Estimated External Revenue receipts under section 74 (s74)  of the PGPA Act.  
(e) Capital budgets are not separately identified in Appropriation Bill (No.1) and form part of ordinary annual 
services items. Please refer to Table 3.5 for further details on capital budgets. For accounting purposes, 
capital budget appropriations have been d esignated as a 'contribution by owner'.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25 
Estimate
$'000
Departmental
Annual appropriations - ordinary annual services (a)
    Prior year appropriations available (b) 97,429 107,178 
    Departmental appropriation (c) 167,672 177,039 
    s74 External Revenue (d) 1,300 1,300 
    Departmental capital budget (e) 15,728 6,705 
Total departmental annual appropriations 282,129 292,222 
Total departmental resourcing 282,129 292,222 
Administered
Total administered special appropriations 1,500 1,500 
Total administered resourcing 1,500 1,500 
Total resourcing for Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman 283,629 293,722 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 954 970 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Office of the  Fair Work Ombudsman   |  Page 177 
1.3 Budget measures  
Budget measures in Part 1 relating to  the Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  are detailed 
in the Budget Paper No.  2 and are summarised below.  
Table 1.2: Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman 2024 –25 Budget measures  
Part 1: Measures announced since the 2023 –24 Mid -Year Economic and Fiscal 
Outlook  (MYEFO)  
 
Prepared on a Government Finance Statistics (Underlying Cash) basis. Figures displayed as a negative ( -) 
represent a decrease in funds and a positive (+) represent an increase in funds.  
(a) This measure can also be found in the payment measures section.  
(b) The lead entity for measure titled Delivering a Strategic Fleet  is the Department of Infrastructure, 
Transport, Regional Development, Communications and the Arts. The full measure description and 
package details appear in  Budget Paper under the No. 2 under the Infrastructure, Transport, Regional 
Development, Communic ations and the Arts portfolio.  
(c) This is a Whole of Government savings measure. The full measure description and package details 
appear in Budget Paper No. 2 under Cross portfolio.  
  
Program2023-24
$'0002024-25
$'0002025-26
$'0002026-27
$'0002027-28
$'000
Receipt measures
Workplace Relations (a) 1.1            
Administered receipt                - (2,357)       (5,386) (3,871)       (3,878)
Total                - (2,357)       (5,386) (3,871)       (3,878)
Total receipt measures
Administered                - (2,357)       (5,386) (3,871)       (3,878)
Total                - (2,357)       (5,386) (3,871)       (3,878)
Payment measures 
Delivering a Strategic Fleet (b) 1.1            
Departmental payment                -           941           920 -                - 
Total                - 941           920 -                - 
Savings from External 
  Labour - extension (c)1.1            
Departmental payment                -          (275)          (305) (345)       (2,945)
Total                - (275)          (305) (345)       (2,945)
Workplace Relations 1.1            
Departmental payment                -        8,638        6,268 8,108        8,306 
Total                - 8,638        6,268 8,108        8,306 
Total payment measures
Departmental                -        9,304        6,883        7,763        5,361 
Total                -        9,304        6,883        7,763        5,361   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 178  |  Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by the 
Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the primary 
vehicle by which government entities achieve the intended results of their outcome 
statements. Entities are required to identify the programs which contribute to government 
outco mes over the Budget and forward years.  
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs. 
The following  provides detailed information on expenses for each outcome and program, 
further broken down by funding source.  
Note:  
Performance reporting requirements in the Portfolio Budget Statements are part of the 
Commonwealth performance framework established by the Public Governance, Performance 
and Accountability Act 2013 . It is anticipated that the performance measure described in 
Portfolio Budget Statements will be read with broader information provided in an entity ’s 
corporate plans and annual performance statements – included in Annual Reports  – to 
provide a complete picture of an entity ’s planned and actual performance.  
The most recent corporate plan for OFWO  can be found at: 
https://www.fairwork.gov.au/about -us/our -role-and-purpose/our -
priorities/corporate -plan . 
The most recent annual performance statement can be found at: 
https://www.fairwork.gov.au/sites/default/files/2023 -10/office -of-the-fair-work -
ombudsman -annual -report -2022 -23. 
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Office of the  Fair Work Ombudsman   |  Page 179 
2.1  Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1 
Outcome 1: Compliance with workplace relations legislation through advice, education and where 
necessary enforcement.  
 
Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 
This table shows how much the entity intends to spend (on an accrual basis) on achieving 
the outcome, broken down by program, as well as by Administered an d Departmental 
funding sources.  
Table 2. 1.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 
 
Note: Departmental appropriation splits and totals are indicative estimates and may change in the course of 
the budget year as government priorities change.  
(a) Estimated expenses incurred in relation to receipts retained under s74 of the PGPA Act.  
(b) Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year are made up of depreciation expenses, 
amortisation expenses, make good expenses and audit fees.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Departmental expenses
Departmental appropriation 158,095 167,781 172,682 176,629 181,377
s74 External Revenue (a) 1,300 1,300 1,300 1,300 1,300
Expenses not requiring
  appropriation in the Budget
  year (b) 17,041 17,412 17,371 17,653 19,499
Departmental total 176,436 186,493 191,353 195,582 202,176 
Total expenses for program 1.1 176,436 186,493 191,353 195,582 202,176 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 954 970 Outcome 1: Compliance with workplace relations legislation through advice, education and where 
necessary enforcement.
Program 1.1: Education Services and Compliance Activities - To educate employers, employees, 
organisations and contractors about the workplace relations system and to ensure compliance with 
workplace laws.  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 180  |  Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
Table 2. 1.2: Performance measures  for Outcome 1 
Table 2. 1.2 details the performance measures for each program associated with Outcome 1. 
It is used by entities to describe the results they plan to achieve and the related key  
activities , as detailed in the current corporate plan , the context in which these activities are 
delivered , and how the performance of these activities will be measured. Where relevant, 
details of the 2024–25 Budget measures that have created new programs or materially 
changed existing programs are provided.   
Outcome 1  – Compliance with workplace relations legislation through advice, education and where 
necessary enforcement.  
Program 1.1 – Education Services and Compliance Activities  
 
To educate employers, employees, organisations  and contractors about the workplace relations  system 
and to ensure compliance with workplace laws.  
Key Activities  • Provide information, advice and education on the requirements and flexibilities of 
workplace laws to foster voluntary compliance.  
• Investigate claims regarding alleged breaches of workplace laws and undertake 
targeted activities.  
• Litigate, where necessary, to enforce compliance with workplace laws.  
Year  Performance measures  Expected Performance Results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 OFWO will undertake an annual survey to 
determine stakeholder satisfaction  
levels. Year -on-year results will be used  
to measure changes in stakeholder  
satisfaction.  Target: Greater than 75%  
 
In-progress  
OFWO will undertake ongoing surveys to 
determine customer satisfaction levels.  
A sample of customers who have  
interacted with our advisers through the  
Fair Work Infoline will be asked to  
participate in the surveys.  Target: Greater than 75%  
 
On track  
The OFWO will use a combination of  
quantitative data and customer surveys  
to: 
• report on digital tool usage numbers 
and year -on-year changes  
• survey customers to determine 
percentage of digital tool users who 
report that tools improved their 
understanding of workplace rights and 
obligations.  Target: Greater than 75%  
 
On track  
The OFWO will use quantitative data to  
determine the percentage of matters  
finalised within an average of 30 days of  
the request for assistance being  
received.  Target: At least 85%  
 
On track  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Office of the  Fair Work Ombudsman   |  Page 181 
Year  Performance measures  Expected Performance Results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 The OFWO will use a combination of  
quantitative data and case studies to  
demonstrate that it:  
• applies a risk -based approach to 
enforcement action in accordance with 
OFWO’s compliance and enforcement 
policy  
• develops annual strategic compliance 
and enforcement priorities to guide its 
approach.  Compliance Notices issued  
Target: 2000 –2500  
Achieved  
 
Penalty Infringement Notices  
Target: 400  
Achieved  
 
Enforceable Undertakings entered into  
Target: 15  
At risk  
As at the end of Quarter 3 2023 –24, 
the OFWO has entered into 9 
Enforceable Undertakings.  
 
Litigations filed  
Target: 65 –75 
On track  
 
Annual strategic compliance and  
enforcement priorities developed and  
announced.  
Achieved  
Year  Performance measures ( a) Planned  Performance Results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 OFWO will undertake an annual survey to  
determine stakeholder satisfaction  
levels. Year -on-year results will be used  
to measure changes in stakeholder  
satisfaction.  Target: Greater than 75%  
OFWO will undertake ongoing surveys to  
determine customer satisfaction levels.  
A sample of customers who have  
interacted with our advisers through the  
Fair Work Infoline will be asked to  
participate in the surveys.  Target: Greater than 75%  
 
 
The OFWO will use a combination of  
quantitative data and customer surveys  
to: 
• report on digital tool usage numbers 
and year -on-year changes  
• survey customers to determine 
percentage of digital tool users who 
report that tools improved their 
understanding of workplace rights and 
obligations.  Target: Greater than 75%  
 
 
The OFWO will use quantitative data to  
determine the percentage of matters  
finalised within an average of 30 days of  
the request for assistance being  
received.  Target: At least 85%  
 
 
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 182  |  Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
Year  Performance measures ( a) Planned  Performance Results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 The OFWO will use a combination of  
quantitative data and case studies to  
demonstrate that it:  
• applies a risk -based approach to 
enforcement action in accordance with 
OFWO’s compliance and enforcement 
policy  
• develops annual strategic compliance 
and enforcement priorities to guide its 
approach.  Compliance Notices issued  
Target: 2000 –2500  
 
 
Penalty Infringement Notices  
Target: 400  
 
Enforceable Undertakings entered into  
Target: 15  
 
Litigations filed  
Target: 65 –75 
 
Annual strategic compliance and  
enforcement priorities developed and  
announced.  
Forward Estimates  
2025 –28 As per 2024 –25 As per 2024 –25 
Material changes to Program 1.1 resulting from 2024 –25 Budget Measures:  
• Workplace Relations  
• Delivering a Strategic Fleet  
(a) Performance measures for the budget year 2024 –25 and forward estimates are currently under review. 
The 2024 –25 Corporate Plan will provide the most updated performance measure information.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Office of the  Fair Work Ombudsman   |  Page 183 
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  
Section 3 presents budgeted financial statements which provide a comprehensive snapshot 
of entity finances for the 2024 –25 budget year, including the impact of budget measures 
and resourcing on financial statements.  
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  
3.1.1  Differences between entity resourcing and financial statements  
There is no material difference between the entity resourcing and financial statements . 
3.1.2  Explanatory notes and analysis of budgeted financial statements  
The Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman is budgeting for a break -even result in 2024 –25, 
after excluding $8.1 million  unfunded depreciation and amortisation expenses less the 
principal repayments on leased assets.  
Total revenues are estimated to be $178.4 million and total expenses $186.5 million .  
Total assets at the end of the 2024 –25 financial year are estimated to be $183.2 million . 
The majority of the assets represent receivables (appropriations receivable), property leased 
assets and intangibles. Asset acquisitions are planned in information technology equipment 
and systems.  
Total liabilities for 2023 –24 are estimated at $68.2 million . The largest liability items are 
property lease liabilities and accrued employee entitlements.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 184  |  Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
3.2 Budgeted financial statements tables  
Table 3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services) for 
the period ended 30  June  
 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
EXPENSES
Employee benefits 119,024 120,522 124,505 123,537 120,119 
Suppliers 38,360 46,128 47,173 51,650 58,853 
Grants 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 
Depreciation and amortisation (a) 16,941 17,312 17,271 17,553 19,399 
Finance costs 311 731 604 1,042 2,005 
Total expenses 176,436 186,493 191,353 195,582 202,176 
LESS: 
OWN-SOURCE INCOME
Own-source revenue
Rental income 450 450 450 450 450 
Other 950 950 950 950 950 
Total own-source revenue 1,400 1,400 1,400 1,400 1,400 
Total own-source income 1,400 1,400 1,400 1,400 1,400 
Net (cost of)/contribution by
  services (175,036) (185,093) (189,953) (194,182) (200,776)
Revenue from Government 167,672 177,039 182,272 186,158 191,626 
Surplus/(deficit) attributable to the
  Australian Government (7,364) (8,054) (7,681) (8,024) (9,150)
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Total other comprehensive income - - - - - 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) (7,364) (8,054) (7,681) (8,024) (9,150)
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
  attributable to the Australian
  Government (7,364) (8,054) (7,681) (8,024) (9,150)Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Office of the  Fair Work Ombudsman   |  Page 185 
Table 3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services) for 
the period ended 30  June  (continued)  
Note: Impact of net cash appropriation arrangements  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) From 2010 –11, the Government introduced net cash appropriation arrangements that provided 
non-corporate Commonwealth entities with a separate Departmental Capital Budget (DCB) under 
Appropriation Bill (No.1). This replaced revenue appropriations provided under Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 
used for the depreciation/amortisation expenses. For information regarding DCBs, please refer to 
Table  3.5 Departmental Capital Budget Statement.  
(b) Applies to leases under AASB 16 Leases.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
  - as per statement of
  Comprehensive Income (7,364) (8,054) (7,681) (8,024) (9,150)
plus: depreciation/amortisation of assets
  funded through appropriations
  (departmental capital budget funding
  and/or equity injections) (a) 7,963 7,851 7,851 7,851 7,851 
plus: depreciation/amortisation
  expenses for ROU assets (b) 8,978 9,461 9,420 9,702 11,548 
less: lease principal repayments (b) 9,577 9,258 9,590 9,529 10,249 
Net Cash Operating Surplus/ (Deficit) - - - - -   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 186  |  Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
Table  3.2: Budg eted departmental balance sheet (as at 30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
*Equity is the residual interest in assets after the deduction of liabilities.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 482 482 482 482 482 
Trade and other receivables 108,281 108,582 108,648 108,554 108,557 
Total financial assets     108,763     109,064     109,130     109,036     109,039 
Non-financial assets
Land and buildings 24,552 25,909 22,734 40,088 59,857 
Property, plant and equipment 4,008 5,184 3,319 2,638 757 
Intangibles 41,931 40,941 38,504 40,488 40,586 
Other non-financial assets 2,058 2,058 2,058 2,058 2,058 
Total non-financial assets       72,549       74,092       66,615       85,272     103,258 
Total assets      181,312      183,156      175,745      194,308      212,297 
LIABILITIES
Payables
Suppliers 11,890 11,890 11,890 11,890 11,890 
Other payables 3,135 3,304 3,354 3,298 3,299 
Total payables       15,025       15,194       15,244       15,188       15,189 
Interest bearing liabilities
Leases 20,343 23,235 16,231 35,842 55,777 
Total interest bearing liabilities       20,343       23,235       16,231       35,842       55,777 
Provisions
Employee provisions 29,597 29,729 29,745 29,707 29,709 
Total provisions       29,597       29,729       29,745       29,707       29,709 
Total liabilities        64,965        68,158        61,220        80,737      100,675 
Net assets      116,347      114,998      114,525      113,571      111,622 
EQUITY*
Parent entity interest
Contributed equity 192,028 198,733 205,941 213,011 220,212 
Reserves 5,753 5,753 5,753 5,753 5,753 
Retained surplus (accumulated
  deficit) (81,434) (89,488) (97,169) (105,193) (114,343)
Total parent entity interest 116,347 114,998 114,525 113,571 111,622 
Total equity 116,347 114,998 114,525 113,571 111,622 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Office of the  Fair Work Ombudsman   |  Page 187 
Table 3.3: Departmental statement of changes in equity  – summary of  movement 
(Budget year 2024 –25)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
Retained
earnings
$'000Asset
revaluation
reserve
$'000Other
reserves
$'000Contributed
equity/
capital
$'000Total
equity 
$'000
Opening balance as at 1 July 2024
Balance carried forward from
  previous period (81,434) 5,753 - 192,028 116,347 
Adjusted opening balance (81,434) 5,753 - 192,028 116,347 
Comprehensive income
Surplus/(deficit) for the period (8,054) - - - (8,054)
Total comprehensive income (8,054) - - - (8,054)
of which:
Attributable to the Australian
  Government (8,054) - - - (8,054)
Transactions with owners
Contributions by owners
Departmental Capital Budget (DCB) - - - 6,705 6,705 
Sub-total transactions with
  owners - - - 6,705 6,705 
Estimated closing balance as at
  30 June 2025 (89,488) 5,753 - 198,733 114,998 
Closing balance attributable to
  the Australian Government (89,488) 5,753 - 198,733 114,998   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 188  |  Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
Table 3.4: Budgeted depar tmental statement of cash flows (for the period ended  
30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Appropriations 167,672 176,738 182,206 186,252 191,623 
Sale of goods and rendering of
  services 580 580 580 495 495 
Net GST received 3,898 3,528 4,195 5,246 6,010 
Other 850 850 850 850 850 
Total cash received 173,000 181,696 187,831 192,843 198,978 
Cash used
Employees 119,024 120,221 124,439 123,631 120,116 
Suppliers 42,158 49,556 51,268 56,796 64,763 
Net GST paid 130 130 130 45 45 
Interest payments on lease liability 311 731 604 1,042 2,005 
Other 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 
Total cash used 163,423 172,438 178,241 183,314 188,729 
Net cash from/(used by)
  operating activities 9,577 9,258 9,590 9,529 10,249 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Cash used
Purchase of property, plant and
  equipment and intangibles 15,728 6,705 7,208 7,070 7,201 
Total cash used 15,728 6,705 7,208 7,070 7,201 
Net cash from/(used by)
  investing activities (15,728) (6,705) (7,208) (7,070) (7,201)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Contributed equity 15,728 6,705 7,208 7,070 7,201 
Total cash received 15,728 6,705 7,208 7,070 7,201 
Cash used
Principal payments on lease liability 9,577 9,258 9,590 9,529 10,249 
Total cash used 9,577 9,258 9,590 9,529 10,249 
Net cash from/(used by)
  financing activities 6,151 (2,553) (2,382) (2,459) (3,048)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
  held - - - - - 
Cash and cash equivalents at the
  beginning of the reporting period 482 482 482 482 482 
Cash and cash equivalents at
  the end of the reporting period 482 482 482 482 482 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Office of the  Fair Work Ombudsman   |  Page 189 
Table  3.5: Departmental capital budget statement (for the period ended 30 June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Includes purchases from current and previous years' DCBs.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
NEW CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS
Capital budget - Bill 1 (DCB) 15,728 6,705 7,208 7,070 7,201 
Total new capital appropriations 15,728 6,705 7,208 7,070 7,201 
Provided for:
Purchase of non-financial assets 15,728 6,705 7,208 7,070 7,201 
Total items 15,728 6,705 7,208 7,070 7,201 
PURCHASE OF NON-FINANCIAL
  ASSETS
Funded by capital appropriation -
  DCB (a) 15,728 6,705 7,208 7,070 7,201 
TOTAL 15,728 6,705 7,208 7,070 7,201 
RECONCILIATION OF CASH USED
  TO ACQUIRE ASSETS TO ASSET
  MOVEMENT TABLE
Total purchases 15,728 6,705 7,208 7,070 7,201 
Total cash used to acquire assets 15,728 6,705 7,208 7,070 7,201   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 190  |  Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
Table  3.6: Statement of departmental asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis . 
(a) ‘Appropriation ordinary annual services’ refers to funding provided through  
Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 2024 –2025 for depreciation/amortisation expenses, DCBs or other operational 
expenses.  
  
Buildings
$'000Other
property,
plant and
equipment
$'000Computer
software and
intangibles
$'000Total
$'000
As at 1 July 2024
Gross book value 23,713 10,461 71,173 105,347 
Gross book value - ROU assets 62,630 - - 62,630 
Accumulated depreciation/
amortisation and impairment (18,143) (6,453) (29,242) (53,838)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation and 
impairment - ROU assets (43,648) - - (43,648)
Opening net book balance 24,552 4,008 41,931 70,491 
Capital asset additions
Estimated expenditure on new
  or replacement assets
By purchase - appropriation
  ordinary annual services (a) 1,045 3,087 2,573 6,705 
By purchase - appropriation ordinary
  annual services - ROU assets 12,150 - - 12,150 
Total additions 13,195 3,087 2,573 18,855 
Other movements
Depreciation/amortisation expense (2,377) (1,911) (3,563) (7,851)
Depreciation/amortisation on 
 ROU assets (9,461) - - (9,461)
Total other movements (11,838) (1,911) (3,563) (17,312)
As at 30 June 2025
Gross book value 24,758 13,548 73,746 112,052 
Gross book value - ROU assets 74,780 - - 74,780 
Accumulated depreciation/
  amortisation and impairment (20,520) (8,364) (32,805) (61,689)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation and 
impairment - ROU assets (53,109) - - (53,109)
Closing net book balance 25,909 5,184 40,941 72,034 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Office of the  Fair Work Ombudsman   |  Page 191 
Table  3.7: Schedule of budgeted income and expenses administered on behalf of 
Government (for the period ended 30  June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
EXPENSES
Total expenses administered on
  behalf of Government - - - - - 
LESS:
OWN-SOURCE INCOME
Non-taxation revenue
Fees and fines 7,316 28,751 28,751 31,287 31,287 
Total non-taxation revenue 7,316 28,751 28,751 31,287 31,287 
Total own-source revenue
  administered on behalf of
  Government 7,316 28,751 28,751 31,287 31,287 
Total own-sourced income
  administered on behalf of
  Government 7,316 28,751 28,751 31,287 31,287 
Net (cost of)/contribution by services 7,316 28,751 28,751 31,287 31,287 
Surplus/(deficit) before income tax 7,316 28,751 28,751 31,287 31,287 
Surplus/(deficit) after income tax 7,316 28,751 28,751 31,287 31,287 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 7,316 28,751 28,751 31,287 31,287   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 192  |  Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
Table  3.8: Schedule of budgeted assets and liabilities administered o n behalf of 
Government (as at 30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
ASSETS 
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 4,536 4,536 4,536 4,536 4,536 
Other financial assets 968 968 968 968 968 
Total financial assets 5,504 5,504 5,504 5,504 5,504 
Total assets administered on
  behalf of Government 5,504 5,504 5,504 5,504 5,504 
LIABILITIES
Net assets 5,504 5,504 5,504 5,504 5,504 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Office of the  Fair Work Ombudsman   |  Page 193 
Table 3.9: Schedule of budgeted administered cash flows (for the period ended 
30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Other 8,816 30,251 30,251 32,787 32,787 
Total cash received 8,816 30,251 30,251 32,787 32,787 
Cash used
Other 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 
Total cash used 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 
Net cash from/(used by)
  operating activities 7,316 28,751 28,751 31,287 31,287 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
  held 7,316 28,751 28,751 31,287 31,287 
Cash and cash equivalents at
  beginning of reporting period
Cash from Official Public Account for:
- Appropriations 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 
Total cash from Official Public Account 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 
Cash to Official Public Account for:
- Transfers to other entities 
  (Finance - Whole of
  Government) (8,816) (30,251) (30,251) (32,787) (32,787)
Total cash to Official Public Account (8,816) (30,251) (30,251) (32,787) (32,787)
Cash and cash equivalents at
  end of reporting period - - - - -   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 194  |  Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
Table 3.10: Schedule of administered capital budget statement (for the period 
ended 30 June)   
The OFWO has no administered capital budget therefore Table 3.10 is not presented.  
Table 3.11: Statement of administered asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
The OFWO has no administered assets  therefore Table 3.11 is not presented .  
 Safe Work Australia  
 
Entity resources and planned 
performance   
Safe Work Australia   |  Page 197 Safe Work Australia  
Section 1: Entity overview and resources  ................................ ..............................  199 
1.1 Strategic direction statement  ................................ ................................ ....................  199 
1.2 Entity resource statement ................................ ................................ .........................  201 
1.3 Budget measures  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 202 
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  ................................ ...................  203 
2.1  Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1  ................................ ..............  204 
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ..............................  208 
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  ................................ ................................ .................  208 
3.2 Budgeted financial statements tables  ................................ ................................ ....... 209  
Safe Work Australia   |  Page 199 Safe Work Australia  
Section 1: Entity overview and reso urces  
1.1 Strategic direction statement  
Safe Work Australia  (SWA)  was established on 1 November 2009 under the Safe Work 
Australia Act  2008  (the SWA Act). The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and staff of Safe Work 
Australia are a statutory agency for the purposes of the Public Service Act 1999 . The agency 
also operates under the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013  (PGPA 
Act) framework.  
Safe Work Australia leads the development of national policy to improve work health and 
safety (WHS) and workers’ compensation arrangements across Australia. 
The establishment of Safe Work Australia was provided for in the Intergovernmental 
Agreement for R egulatory and Operational Reform in Occupational Health and 
Safety  (IGA), agreed by the Council of Australian Governments on 3 July 2008.  
The agency is jointly funded by the Commonwealth, state and territory governments. 
This  funding arrangement promotes collaboration with jurisdictions on evidence collection 
and distribution, policy and strategy development and communication and education 
initiatives. Safe Work Australia has 15 members, including a chair, nine members 
representing the Commonwealth and each state and territory, two members representing 
the interests of employers, two representing the interests of workers and the CEO of Safe 
Work Australia.  
The CEO manages the agency under section 45 of the SWA Act and is the accountable 
authority in accordance with the PGPA Act.  
In 2024 –25, Safe Work Australia will continue its work to ensure the health and safety of all 
working Australians and the broader community, through:  
• supporting the implementation of the engineered stone prohibition and regulation of 
crystalline silica process, including a review of the prohibition to ensure it is operating 
effectively  
• progressing and finalising agreed amendments to the incident notification provisions , 
alongside the development of detailed guidance  
• developing accessible guidance with a focus on higher risk industries such as health 
care and social assistance  
• delivering new data and research insights including through implementation of a 
redesigned National Return to Work Survey and a proposal for a new worker exposure 
survey    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 200  |  Safe Work Australia  
• develop ing and implement ing communication strategies that increase awareness of 
WHS  fundamentals, particularly among small businesses  
• continuously assessing new and emerging business models, industries and hazards to 
identify if there is a need for changes to the model WHS framework monitoring the 
progress of and driving actions in the Australian Work Health and Safety  
Strateg y 2023 –2033  
• supporting the initiatives in the National Return to Work Strategy 2020 –2030 to improve 
return to work outcomes for workers with a work -related injury or  illness.  
Safe Work Australia will continue to be an evidence -based tripartite forum by:  
• bringing together and recognising varying views and interests to ensure effective 
national policies and strategies which improve WHS and workers’ compensation 
outcomes  
• using its influence to increase knowledge and awareness of Australian WHS laws and 
workers’ compensation arrangements  
• supporting the collection, analysis and publication of national WHS and workers’ 
compensation data, and research that will address identified knowledge gaps with 
practical and actionable  outcomes  
• developing national policy and supporting strategies to improve workers’ 
compensation arrangements, with a particular focus on return to work  
• working with other national and international bodies to share data, information an d 
knowledge on WHS and workers’ compensation matters to improve Australian 
outcomes.  
The Safe Work Australia Corporate Plan 2024 –2028 will set out the outcomes to be achieved 
over the forward years and the strategies that will be implemented to achieve them. 
Safe Work Australia’s 2024 –25 Operational Plan will provide further detail on the activities 
to be achieved over the financial year. Both plans are currently being revised, with new 
versions to be published in early 2024 –25. 
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Safe Work Australia   |  Page 201 
1.2 Entity resource statement  
Table 1.1 shows the total resourcing from all sources available to Safe Work Australia for its 
operations and to deliver programs and services on behalf of the Government.  
The table summarises how resources will be applied by outcome (government strategic 
policy objectives) and by administered (on behalf of the Government or the public) and 
departmental (for the entity’s operations) classification.  
For more detailed information on special accounts and special appropriations, please refer 
to the Budget Paper No. 4 – Agency Resourcing .  
Information in this table is presented on a resourcing (that is, appropriations/cash 
available) basis, whilst the ‘Budgeted expenses by Outcome 1’ tables in Section 2 and the 
financial statements in Section 3 are presented on an accrual basis. Amounts presented 
below are consistent with amounts presented in the Appropriation Bills themselves.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 202  |  Safe Work Australia  
Table 1.1: Safe Work Australia resource statement – Budget estimates for 
2024 – 25 as at Budget May 2024  
 
Prepared on a resourcing (i.e. appropriations available) basis.  
All figures shown above are GST exclusive — these may not match figures in the cash flow statement.  
(a) Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 2024 –2025.  
(b) Excludes departmental capital budget (DCB).  
(c) Capital budgets are not separately identified in Appropriation Bill (No.1) and form part of ordinary annual 
services items. Please refer to Table 3.5 for further details on capital budgets. For accounting purposes, 
capital budget appropriations have been designated as a 'contribution by owner'.  
(d) Excludes trust moneys held in Services for Other Entities and Trust Moneys (SOETM) and other special 
accounts. For further information on special accounts, please refer to Budget Paper No. 4 — Agency 
Resourcing. Please also see Table 2.1 for further information on outcome and program expenses broken 
down by various funding sources, e.g. annual appropriations, special appropriations and special 
accounts.  
(e) Amounts credited to the special account(s) from Safe Work Australia's annual and special 
appropriations.  
 
1.3 Budget measures  
Safe Work Australia has no measures announced since the 2023 –24 Mid -Year Economic and 
Fiscal Outlook . For this reason, Table 1.2 is not presented.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25 
Estimate
$'000
Departmental
Annual appropriations - ordinary annual services (a)
    Departmental appropriation (b) 11,939 12,276 
    Departmental capital budget (c) 288 296 
Total departmental annual appropriations 12,227 12,572 
Special accounts (d)
    Opening balance 24,921 24,921 
    Appropriation receipts (e) 12,227 12,572 
    Non-appropriation receipts 12,233 12,573 
Total special accounts 49,381 50,066 
less departmental appropriations drawn from annual/special
  appropriations and credited to special accounts 12,227 12,572 
Total resourcing for Safe Work Australia 37,154 37,494 
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 101 101 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Safe Work Australia   |  Page 203 
Section 2: Outcomes and planned performance  
Government outcomes are the intended results, impacts or consequences of actions by the 
Government on the Australian community. Commonwealth programs are the primary 
vehicle by which government entities achieve the intended results of their outcome 
stateme nts. Entities are required to identify the programs which contribute to government 
outcomes over the Budget and forward years.  
Each outcome is described below together with its related programs. 
The following  provides detailed information on expenses for each outcome and program, 
further broken down by funding source.  
Note:  
Performance reporting requirements in the Portfolio Budget Statements are part of the 
Commonwealth performance framework established by the Public Governance, Performance 
and Accountability Act 2013 . It is anticipated that the performance measure described in 
Portfolio Budget Statements will be read with broader information provided in an entity ’s 
corporate plans and annual performance statements – included in Annual Reports  – to 
provide a complete picture of an entity ’s planned and actual performance.  
The most recent corporate plan for Safe Work Australia can be found at: 
https://www.safeworkaustralia.gov.au/about -us/corporate -publications -and-
resources/corporate -plan -2023 -2027 .  
The most recent annual performance statement can be found at:  
https://www.safeworkaustralia.gov.au/doc/safe -work -australia -annual -report -2022 -
23.   
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 204  |  Safe Work Australia  
2.1  Budgeted expenses and performance for Outcome 1 
Outcome 1: Healthier, safer and more productive workplaces through improvements in Australian 
work health and safety and workers' compensation arrangements.  
 
Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 
This table shows how much the entity intends to spend (on an accrual basis) on achieving 
the outcome, broken down by program, as well as by Administered an d Departmental 
funding sources.  
Table 2. 1.1: Budgeted expenses for Outcome 1 
 
Note: Departmental appropriation splits and totals are indicative estimates and may change in the course of 
the budget year as government priorities change.  
(a) Expenses not requiring appropriation in the Budget year are made up of depreciation expenses, 
amortisation expenses, make good expenses, audit fees.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Departmental expenses
Departmental appropriation 11,939 12,276 12,645 12,938 13,260 
Special accounts
Safe Work Australia Special Account 11,387 11,669 11,800 12,359 13,580 
Expenses not requiring
  appropriation in the Budget
  year (a) 1,351 1,351 949 959 959 
Departmental total 24,677 25,296 25,394 26,256 27,799 
Total expenses for program 1.1 24,677 25,296 25,394 26,256 27,799 
Departmental expenses
Departmental appropriation 11,939 12,276 12,645 12,938 13,260
Special accounts 11,387 11,669 11,800 12,359 13,580
Expenses not requiring
  appropriation in the Budget
  year (a) 1,351 1,351 949 959 959
Departmental total 24,677 25,296 25,394 26,256 27,799
Total expenses for Outcome 1 24,677 25,296 25,394 26,256 27,799
2023-24 2024-25
Average staffing level (number) 101 101 Outcome 1: Healthier, safer and more productive workplaces through improvements in Australian work 
health and safety and workers' compensation arrangements.
Program 1.1:  Reform of and improvements to Australian work health and safety and workers' 
compensation arrangements
Outcome 1 Totals by appropriation typePortfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Safe Work Australia   |  Page 205 
Table 2. 1.2: Performance measures  for Outcome 1 
Table 2.1.2  details the performance measures for each program associated with Outcome 1. 
It is used by entities to describe the results they plan to achieve and the related key 
activities , as detailed in the current corporate plan , the context in which these activities are 
delivered , and how the performance of these activities will be measured. Where relevant, 
details of the 2024–25 Budget measures that have created new programs or materially 
changed existing programs are provided.   
Outcome 1  – Healthier, safer and more productive workplaces through improvements to Australian 
work health and safety  and workers’ compensation arrangements.  
Program 1.1 - Reform of and improvements to Australian work health and safety and workers’ 
compensation arrangements  
 
This program contributes to Outcome 1 by ensuring the innovative development of evidence -based policy 
which is central to Australia becoming a world leader in the delivery of improved safety and compensation 
outcomes.  
Key Activities   Our strategies for 2023 –2027, as reported in the current corporate plan that relates 
to this program, are:  
• Drive regulatory change to protect workers from exposure to harmful substances, 
particularly respirable crystalline silica  
• Finalise the implementation of WHS ministers’ responses to the 
recommendations of the independent 2018 review of the model WHS laws  
• Respond to emerging WHS issues as work and workplaces continue to  evolve  
• Monitor the progress of and drive certain actions in the Australian Work Health 
and Safety Strategy 2023 –2033  
• Support the National Return to Work Strategy 2020 –2030 and the actions to 
improve return to work outcomes for workers with a work -related injury or  illness  
• Support the collection, analysis and dissemination of national WHS and workers’ 
compensation data, and research that will address identified knowledge gaps 
with practical and actionable  outcomes.  
Year  Performance measures  Expected Performance Results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 The activities identified in the 
Safe Work Australia Operational Plan 
are achieved.  75% of voting Safe Work Australia 
Members are satisfied with the 
achievements against the activities 
outlined in the 2023 –24 Operational Plan.  
 
On track  
Safe Work Australia provides an 
inclusive tripartite forum for 
representatives of governments, 
workers and employers to collaborate 
on national WHS and workers’ 
compensation matters.  Safe Work Australia exceeds the minimum 
number of legislated Safe Work Australia 
Members’ meetings, convenes 
Strategic  Issues Group meetings, and 
facilitates and engages in other workshops 
and fora.  
 
On track  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 206  |  Safe Work Australia  
Year  Performance measures  Expected Performance Results  
Current Year  
2023 –24 The WHS regulatory framework is 
strengthened through evidence -based 
improvements to the model WHS laws, 
policies, guidance material and 
information.  Safe Work Australia grows the evidence 
base for WHS  and workers’ compensation 
through compiling and publishing:  
• National dataset for 
compensation - based statistics  
• Traumatic Injury Fatalities dataset  
• Comparative Performance Monitoring 
dataset  
• National Return to Work survey  
• Quad bikes dataset, and  
• the prosecutions repository.  
 
Safe Work Australia delivers 
improvements to the model WHS laws, 
policies, guidance material and information 
by ensuring they are evidence based, 
contemporary and developed through our 
tripartite arrangements.  
 
On track  
Education and awareness levels of 
WHS and workers’ compensation are 
raised.  Education and awareness in persons 
conducting a business or undertaking is 
advanced through the development and 
promotion of resources, and education and 
awareness campaigns, including 
National  Safe Work Month.  
 
On track  
Year  Performance measures  Planned Performance Results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 The activities identified in the 
Safe Work Australia Operational Plan 
are achieved.  75% of voting Safe Work Australia 
Members are satisfied with the 
achievements against the activities 
outlined in the 2024 –25 Operational Plan.  
Safe Work Australia provides an 
inclusive tripartite forum for 
representatives of governments, 
workers and employers to collaborate 
on national WHS and workers’ 
compensation matters.  Safe Work Australia exceeds the minimum 
number of legislated Safe Work Australia 
Members’ meetings, convenes 
Strategic  Issues Group meetings, and 
facilitates and engages in other workshops 
and fora.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Safe Work Australia   |  Page 207 
Year  Performance measures  Planned Performance Results  
Budget Year  
2024 –25 The WHS regulatory framework is 
strengthened through evidence -based 
improvements to the model WHS laws, 
policies, guidance material and 
information.  Safe Work Australia grows the evidence 
base for WHS  and workers’ compensation 
through compiling and publishing:  
• National dataset for 
compensation - based statistics  
• Traumatic Injury Fatalities dataset  
• Comparative Performance Monitoring 
dataset  
• National Return to Work survey  
• Quad bikes dataset, and  
• the prosecutions repository.  
Safe Work Australia delivers 
improvements to the model WHS laws, 
policies, guidance material and information 
by ensuring they are evidence based, 
contemporary and developed through our 
tripartite arrangements.  
Education and awareness levels of 
WHS and workers’ compensation are 
raised.  Education and awareness in persons 
conducting a business or undertaking is 
advanced through the development and 
promotion of resources, and education and 
awareness campaigns, including 
National  Safe Work Month.  
Forward Estimates  
2025 –28 As per 2024 –25 As per 2024 –25 
Material changes to Program 1.1 resulting from 2024 –25 Budget Measures: Nil.  
    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 208  |  Safe Work Australia  
Section 3: Budgeted financial statements  
Section 3 presents budgeted financial statements which provide a comprehensive snapshot 
of entity finances for the 2024 –25 budget year, including the impact of budget measures 
and resourcing on financial statements.  
3.1 Budgeted financial statements  
3.1.1  Differences between entity resourcing and financial statements  
Safe Work Australia receives funding from states and territories, and matched 
appropriation funding from the Commonwealth, as provided for in the IGA.  
3.1.2  Explanatory notes and analysis of budgeted financial statements  
Income Statement  
The Comprehensive Income Statement (Table 3.1) outlines the expected operating results 
for Safe Work Australia for 2024 –25. The result is an estimated operating loss 
of $0.39  million which is a result of unappropriated depreciation and amortisation.  
Safe Work Australia is not expecting any major changes in its financial operations 
during  2024 –25 or over the forward estimates and any movements shown are as a result of 
standard indexation and economic factors. The agency’s funding arrangements are 
provi ded in the IGA.  
Balance Sheet  
The Budgeted Departmental Balance Sheet (Table 3.2) shows that as at 30 June 2025 it is 
estimated Safe Work Australia will have a net asset balance of $21.69 million with total 
assets of $30.07 million, including cash held by the Official Public Account in  the 
Safe Work  Australia special account.  
For the same period liabilities are estimated to be $8.38 million. The largest liability 
components are for the lease liability of $2.82 million and accrued employee entitlements 
of $4.27 million.  
There is no major movements estimated in assets or liabilities in 2024 –25 or over the 
forward years.  
  Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Safe Work Australia   |  Page 209 
3.2 Budgeted financial statements tables  
Table 3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services) for 
the period ended 30  June  
 
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
EXPENSES
Employee benefits 14,053 14,432 14,619 15,187 15,866 
Suppliers 9,151 9,401 9,724 9,959 10,833 
Grants 140 140 140 140 140 
Depreciation and amortisation (a) 1,291 1,291 889 889 889 
Finance costs 42 32 22 11 1 
Total expenses 24,677 25,296 25,394 26,186 27,729 
LESS: 
OWN-SOURCE INCOME
Own-source revenue
Sale of goods and rendering of
  services 12,233 12,573 12,951 13,248 13,580 
Other 60 60 60 - - 
Total own-source revenue 12,293 12,633 13,011 13,248 13,580 
Gains
Total gains - - - - - 
Total own-source income 12,293 12,633 13,011 13,248 13,580 
Net (cost of)/contribution by
  services (12,384) (12,663) (12,383) (12,938) (14,149)
Revenue from Government 11,939 12,276 12,645 12,938 13,260 
Surplus/(deficit) attributable to the
  Australian Government (445) (387) 262 - (889)
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Changes in asset revaluation surplus
Total other comprehensive income - - - - - 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) (445) (387) 262 - (889)
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
  attributable to the Australian
  Government (445) (387) 262 - (889)  |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 210  |  Safe Work Australia  
Table 3.1: Comprehensive income statement (showing net cost of services) for 
the period ended 30  June  (continued)  
Note: Impact of net cash appropriation arrangements  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) From 2010 –11, the Government introduced net cash appropriation arrangements where Bill 1 revenue 
appropriations for the depreciation/amortisation expenses of non -corporate Commonwealth entities 
(and select corporate Commonwealth entities) were replaced wit h a separate capital budget 
(the Departmental Capital Budget, or DCB) provided through Bill 1 equity appropriations. 
For information  regarding DCBs, please refer to Table 3.5 Departmental Capital Budget Statement.  
(b) Applies to leases under AASB 16 Leases.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
  - as per statement of
  Comprehensive Income (445) (387) 262 - (889)
plus: depreciation/amortisation of assets
  funded through appropriations
  (departmental capital budget funding
  and/or equity injections) (a) 133 133 133 133 133 
plus: depreciation/amortisation
  expenses for ROU assets (b) 1,158 1,158 756 756 756 
less: lease principal repayments (b) 1,024 1,053 1,084 1,114 624 
Net Cash Operating Surplus/ (Deficit) (178) (149) 67 (225) (624)Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Safe Work Australia   |  Page 211 
Table  3.2: Budg eted departmental balance sheet (as at 30 June)   
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
*Equity is the residual interest in assets after the deduction of liabilities.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 24,490 24,257 24,542 24,195 24,136
Trade and other receivables 1,247 1,247 1,029 1,151 586
Total financial assets       25,737       25,504       25,571       25,346       24,722 
Non-financial assets
Land and buildings 4,712 3,554 3,077 2,321 1,565
Property, plant and equipment 555 802 693 870 1,055
Other non-financial assets 206 206 206 206 206
Total non-financial assets         5,473         4,562         3,976         3,397         2,826 
Assets held for sale
Total assets        31,210        30,066        29,547        28,743        27,548 
LIABILITIES
Payables
Suppliers 880 880 880 880 880
Other payables 401 401 401 401 401
Total payables         1,281         1,281         1,281         1,281         1,281 
Interest bearing liabilities
Leases 3,875 2,822 1,738 624                 - 
Total interest bearing liabilities         3,875         2,822         1,738            624                 - 
Provisions
Employee provisions 4,272 4,272 4,272 4,272 4,272
Other provisions                 -                 -                 -                 -                 - 
Total provisions         4,272         4,272         4,272         4,272         4,272 
Total liabilities          9,428          8,375          7,291          6,177          5,553 
Net assets        21,782        21,691        22,256        22,566        21,995 
EQUITY*
Parent entity interest
Contributed equity 6,357 6,653 6,956 7,266 7,584 
Reserves 2,207 2,207 2,207 2,207 2,207 
Retained surplus (accumulated
  deficit) 13,218 12,831 13,093 13,093 12,204 
Total parent entity interest 21,782 21,691 22,256 22,566 21,995 
Total equity 21,782 21,691 22,256 22,566 21,995   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 212  |  Safe Work Australia  
Table 3.3: Departmental statement of changes in equity  – summary of  movement 
(Budget year 2024 –25)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis . 
  
Retained
earnings
$'000Asset
revaluation
reserve
$'000Other
reserves
$'000Contributed
equity/
capital
$'000Total
equity 
$'000
Opening balance as at 1 July 2024
Balance carried forward from
  previous period 13,218 2,207 - 6,357 21,782 
Adjusted opening balance 13,218 2,207 - 6,357 21,782 
Comprehensive income
Surplus/(deficit) for the period (387) - - - (387)
Total comprehensive income (387) - - - (387)
of which:
Attributable to the Australian
  Government - - - - - 
Transactions with owners
Contributions by owners
Departmental Capital Budget (DCB) - - - 296 296 
Sub-total transactions with
  owners - - - 296 296 
Estimated closing balance as at
  30 June 2025 12,831 2,207 - 6,653 21,691 
Closing balance attributable to
  the Australian Government 12,831 2,207 - 6,653 21,691 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Safe Work Australia   |  Page 213 
Table  3.4: Budgeted departmental statement of cash flows  (for the period ended 
30 June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Appropriations 11,939 12,276 12,645 12,938 13,260 
Sale of goods and rendering of
  services 12,231 12,573 13,169 13,126 14,145 
Net GST received 1,127 1,156 1,191 - - 
Total cash received 25,297 26,005 27,005 26,064 27,405 
Cash used
Employees 14,053 14,432 14,619 15,187 15,866 
Suppliers 9,201 9,341 9,664 9,959 10,833 
Net GST paid 1,127 1,156 1,191 - - 
Interest payments on lease liability 42 32 22 11 1 
Other 140 140 140 140 140 
Total cash used 24,563 25,101 25,636 25,297 26,840 
Net cash from/(used by)
  operating activities 734 904 1,369 767 565 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Cash used
Purchase of property, plant and
  equipment and intangibles 429 380 303 310 318 
Total cash used 429 380 303 310 318 
Net cash from/(used by)
  investing activities (429) (380) (303) (310) (318)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Cash received
Contributed equity 288 296 303 310 318 
Total cash received 288 296 303 310 318 
Cash used
Principal payments on lease liability 1,024 1,053 1,084 1,114 624 
Total cash used 1,024 1,053 1,084 1,114 624 
Net cash from/(used by)
  financing activities (736) (757) (781) (804) (306)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
  held (431) (233) 285 (347) (59)
Cash and cash equivalents at the
  beginning of the reporting period 24,921 24,490 24,257 24,542 24,195 
Cash and cash equivalents at
  the end of the reporting period 24,490 24,257 24,542 24,195 24,136   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 214  |  Safe Work Australia  
Table 3.5: Departmental capital budget statement (for the period ended 30 June)  
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) Includes purchases from current and previous years' DCBs.  
  
2023-24 
Estimated 
actual
$'0002024-25
Budget
$'0002025-26 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002026-27 
Forward 
estimate
$'0002027-28
Forward 
estimate
$'000
NEW CAPITAL APPROPRIATIONS
Capital budget - Bill 1 (DCB) 288 296 303 310 318 
Total new capital appropriations 288 296 303 310 318 
Provided for:
Purchase of non-financial assets 288 296 303 310 318 
Total items 288 296 303 310 318 
PURCHASE OF NON-FINANCIAL
  ASSETS
Funded by capital appropriation -
  DCB (a) 429 380 303 310 318 
TOTAL 429 380 303 310 318 
RECONCILIATION OF CASH USED
  TO ACQUIRE ASSETS TO ASSET
  MOVEMENT TABLE
Total purchases 429 380 303 310 318 
Total cash used to acquire assets 429 380 303 310 318 Portfolio Budget Statements  |   
 
Safe Work Australia   |  Page 215 
Table  3.6: Statement of departmental asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
 
Prepared on Australian Accounting Standards basis.  
(a) ‘Appropriation ordinary annual services’ refers to funding provided through  
Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 2024 –2025 for depreciation/amortisation  expenses, DCBs or other operational 
expenses.  
  
Buildings
$'000Other
property,
plant and
equipment
$'000Total
$'000
As at 1 July 2024
Gross book value 1,684 1,003 2,687 
Gross book value - ROU assets 8,181 - 8,181 
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation
  and impairment (291) (448) (739)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation
  and impairment - ROU assets (4,862) - (4,862)
Opening net book balance 4,712 555 5,267 
Capital asset additions
Estimated expenditure on new
  or replacement assets
By purchase - appropriation
  ordinary annual services (a) 380 380 
Total additions - 380 380 
Other movements
Depreciation/amortisation expense - (133) (133)
Depreciation/amortisation on
  ROU assets (1,158) - (1,158)
Total other movements (1,158) (133) (1,291)
As at 30 June 2025
Gross book value 1,684 1,383 3,067 
Gross book value - ROU assets 8,181 - 8,181 
Accumulated depreciation/
  amortisation and impairment (291) (581) (872)
Accumulated depreciation/amortisation
  and impairment - ROU assets (6,020) - (6,020)
Closing net book balance 3,554 802 4,356   |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 216  |  Safe Work Australia  
Table  3.7: Schedule of budgeted income and expenses administered on behalf of 
Government (for the period ended 30  June)   
Safe Work Australia has no administered income and expenses therefore Table 3.7 is not 
presented.  
Table  3.8: Schedule of budgeted assets and liabilities administered o n behalf of 
Government (as at 30 June)   
Safe Work Australia has no administered assets and liabilities therefore Table 3.8 is not 
presented.  
Table 3.9: Schedule of budgeted administered cash flows (for the period 
ended  30 June)   
Safe Work Australia has no administered cash flows therefore Table 3.9 is not presented.  
Table 3.10: Schedule of administered capital budget statement (for the period 
ended 30 June)  
Safe Work Australia has no administered capital budget therefore Table 3.10 is not 
presented.  
Table 3.11: Statement of administered asset movements (Budget year 2024 –25) 
 Safe Work Australia has no administered assets therefore Table 3.11 is not prese nted.   
Portfolio glossary   |  Page 217 Portfolio glossary  
Term  Meaning  
Accrual accounting  System of accounting where items are brought to account and included in 
the financial statements as they are earned or incurred, rather than as 
they are received or paid.  
Additional Estimates  Where amounts appropriated at Budget time are insufficient, Parliament 
may appropriate more funds to portfolios through the Additional Estimates 
Acts.  
Additional Estimates Bills or 
Acts These are Appropriation Bills No. 3 and No. 4, and a separate Bill for the 
Parliamentary Departments [Appropriations (Parliamentary Departments) 
Bill (No. 2)]. These Bills are introduced into Parliament sometime after the 
Budget Bills.  
Administered items  Expenses, revenues, assets or liabilities managed by agencies on behalf 
of the Commonwealth. Agencies do not control administered items. 
Administered expenses include grants, subsidies and benefits. In many 
cases, administered expenses fund the delivery of  third-party outputs.  
Amortisation  An accounting technique used to periodically lower the book value of a 
loan or an intangible asset over a set period of time.  
Annual Appropriation  Two Appropriation Bills are introduced into Parliament in May and 
comprise the Budget for the financial year beginning 1 July. Further Bills 
are introduced later in the financial year as part of the additional 
estimates. Parliamentary departments have thei r own appropriations.  
Appropriation  An authorisation by Parliament to spend moneys from the Consolidated 
Revenue Fund for a particular purpose.  
Assets  Assets are physical objects and legal rights it is expected will provide 
benefits in the future or alternatively items of value owned by an agency.  
Budget measure  A decision by the Cabinet or ministers that have resulted in a cost or 
savings to outlays.  
Capital expenditure  Expenditure by an agency on capital projects, for example purchasing a 
building.  
Consolidated Revenue Fund  Section 81 of the Constitution stipulates that all revenue raised or money 
received by the Commonwealth forms the one Consolidated Revenue 
Fund (CRF). The CRF is not a bank account. The Official Public Account 
reflects most of the operations of the CRF.  
Departmental items  Assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses that are controlled by the 
agency in providing its outputs. Departmental items would generally 
include computers, plant and equipment assets used by agencies in 
providing goods and services and most employee expen ses, supplier 
costs and other administrative expenses incurred.  
Depreciation  Apportionment of an asset’s capital value as an expense over its 
estimated useful life to take account of normal usage, obsolescence, or 
the passage of time.  
Equity or net assets  Residual interest in the assets of an entity after deduction of its liabilities.  
Expenses  Total value of all of the resources consumed in producing goods and 
services or the loss of future economic benefits in the form of reductions 
in assets or increases in liabilities of an entity.  
Fair value  Valuation methodology: The amount for which an asset could be 
exchanged  or a liability settled, between knowledgeable and willing 
parties in an arm’s length transaction. The fair value can be affected by 
the conditions of the sale, market conditions and the intentions of the 
asset holder.  
Forward estimates  A system of rolling three -year financial estimates. After the budget is 
passed, the first year of the forward estimates becomes the base for the 
next year’s budget bid, and another out -year is added to the forward 
estimates.    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 218  |  Portfolio glossary  
Term  Meaning  
Liabilities  Liabilities represents amounts owing on goods or services that have been 
received but not yet paid for. A liability shows the future commitment of 
an agency’s assets.  
Net annotated appropriation  Section 74 Receipts, also known as net annotated appropriations, are a 
form of appropriation which allows a department access to certain money 
it receives in payment of services. These monies are known as Section 
74 Receipts, reflecting their authority und er Section 74 of the PGPA Act.  
Official Public Account  The Australian Government maintains a group of bank accounts at the 
Reserve Bank of Australia, known as the Official Public Account (OPA), 
the aggregate balance of which represents its daily cash position.  
Operating result  Equals revenue less expenses.  
Outcomes  The Government’s objectives in each portfolio area. Outcomes are 
desired results, impacts or consequences for the Australian community 
as influenced by the actions of the Australian Government. Actual 
outcomes are assessments of the end -results or impacts actually 
achieved.  
Portfolio Budget Statements  Statements prepared by portfolios to explain the budget appropriations in 
terms of outcomes.  
Public Governance, 
Performance and 
Accountability Act 2013  The Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013  
replaced the Financial Management and Accountability Act 1997  and the 
Commonwealth Authorities and Companies Act 1997  as of 1 July 2014.  
Receipts  The total or gross amount received by the Australian Government. Each 
receipt item is either revenue, an offset within outlays, or a financing 
transaction. Receipts include taxes, interest, charges for goods and 
services, borrowings and Government Business  Enterprise (GBE) 
dividends received.  
Revenue  Total value of resources earned or received to cover the production of 
goods and services.  
Section 74 Receipts  See net annotated appropriation.  
Special Account  Balances existing within the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) that are 
supported by standing appropriations (PGPA Act, s78 and s80). Special 
accounts allow money in the CRF to be acknowledged as set -aside 
(hypothecated) for a particular purpose. Amounts cre dited to a Special 
Account may only be spent for the purposes of the Special Account. 
Special accounts can only be established by a written determination of 
the Finance Minister (s78 of the PGPA Act) or through an Act of 
Parliament (referred to in s80 of t he PGPA Act).  
Special Appropriations 
(including Standing 
Appropriations)  An amount of money appropriated by a particular Act of Parliament for a 
specific purpose and number of years. For special appropriations the 
authority to withdraw funds from the Consolidated Revenue Fund does 
not generally cease at the end of the financial  year. Standing 
appropriations are a sub category consisting of ongoing special 
appropriations - the amount appropriated will depend on circumstances 
specified in the legislation.   
Portfolio acronyms   |  Page 219 Portfolio acronyms  
Term  Definition  
AAIS  Australian Apprenticeships Incentive System  
AASB  Australian Accounting Standards Board  
ACB Administered  Capital Budget  
ACSF  Australian Core Skills Framework  
AFP Australian Federal Police  
APS Australian Public Service  
Asbestos -related Claims  
Act 2005  Asbestos -related Claims  (Management of Commonwealth Liabilities) Act 
2005  
ASSEA  Asbestos and Silica Safety and Eradication Agency (previously ASEA)  
ASQA  Australian Skills Quality Authority  
ATO Australian Taxation Office  
CBMS  Central Budget Management System  
CCE  Corporate Commonwealth entities  
CDAB  Collection Development and Acquisition Budget  
Coal LSL  Coal Mining Industry (Long Service Leave Funding) Corporation  
COPE  Commonwealth own -purpose expense  
CRF Consolidated Revenue Fund  
DCB  Departmental Capital Budget  
DEWR  Department of Employment and Workplace Relations  
DLSF  Digital Literacy Skills Framework  
DSS Department of Social Services  
Fair Work Act  Fair Work Act 2009  
FEG Fair Entitlements Guarantee  
Fund  Seafarers Safety Net Fund  
FWC  Fair Work Commission  
GST Goods and Services Tax  
GTO  Group Training Organisation  
HAFF  Housing Australia Future Fund  
HELP  Higher Education Loan Program  
JSA Jobs and Skills Australia  
MP Member of Parliament  
MYEFO  Mid-Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook  
NCI National Careers Institute  
NEAP  New Energy Apprenticeship Program  
NHAF  National Housing Accord Facility  
NSA National Skills Agreement    |  Portfolio Budget Statements  
 
Page 220  |  Portfolio acronyms  
Term  Definition  
NSC  National Skills Commission  
NVETR Act  National Vocational Education and Training Regulator Act 2011  
OHS  Occupational Health and Safety  
OHS(MI) Act  Occupational Health and Safety (Maritime Industry) Act 1993  
OFWO  Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  
OPA  Official Public Account  
PAES  Portfolio Additional Estimates Statements  
PALM  Pacific Australia Labour Mobility scheme  
PB Statements  Portfolio Budget Statements  
PGPA Act  Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013  
PIAAC  Program for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies  
PICS  Parliamentary Injury Compensation Scheme  
PSAES  Portfolio Supplementary Additional Estimates Statements  
PSM  Public Service Medal  
Registered Organisation Act  Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act 2009  
ROU  Right of use  
RTO  Registered Training Organisation  
Seacare Authority  Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority  
Seafarers Act  Seafarers Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1992  
SGC  Superannuation Guarantee Charge  
SOETM  Services for Other Entities and Trust Moneys  
SRC Act  Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988  
SRCC  Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission  
SWA  Safe Work Australia  
TAFE  Technical and Further Education  
VET Vocational Education and Training  
VFH VET FEE -HELP – Former loans scheme for VET students  
VSL VET Student Loans  
WHS  Work health and safety  
WHS Act  Work Health and Safety Act 2011  
 